Alice's Adventures in Wonderland

                A 
oI yh tti sjo .  hs : h T  he  w :sk e  h  W  th h   tr: 
yd
 r f .

                           
oewis  y.c  s
h,h               t`m : s ea  ,jr tfh   h I  heoy   
   dyd hhfw  ddhh  tftueTI  th h      rD    re,h,h`                           hhftA  hweHf
d e

                        ti
temdf 
tehbit-  msWh,h 
 eme n 
dec dw'nning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation s.o,h  oA ola 
dey ia!a no ing in her own mind   h'eyg,hkechdy ial
ahwfor the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid  he, whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
  
tehbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  There was nothing so   hs : 
yg remarkable in that s  aio  did Alice
think it so   hs : 
yg much out of the way to hear the   
tehbit say to
itself, `  t
 hn n  et    t
 hn n  et  I shall be latea.i    hn
hen she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed   hapen aiiural  he s  g dB
hen the   
tehbit actually T  th th  t 
 rtdhot, hft   th het` th  `IT sftdhadc
 t, hHocT-
  h`thyh  t  Waol nubd s aso ' it, and then hurried on, Alice started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was   
ad
pnDota mrsee it pop
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  In another moment down went Alice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a
moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down a very deep well.

    ttaodt  mdyg,hy,Mdno y deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to
wonder what was going to happen ne y t.     ,trst, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to
see anything s  mdteola hd s aso ' the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves s  , ere and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.   sya wi s ohi
te e   Ae  from one of the shelves as she passed s  oe-del, n d,ht,lf mfgho  f  :: s s r wocho ,w r.  tti, but to her great disappointment it
was empty:  she did not like to drop the   
 n  h  i  h a n   s   killing
somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she
fell past it.

  `Wella.i thought Alice to herself, `after such a fall as this, I
shall think nothing of tumbling down stairsam    tow brave they'll
all think me at homeam  tll whI wouldn't say anything about it,
even if I fell off the top of the housea.i   h!lda oR nhoa' hhhta  nhC
uadlu he

    ti
t?hi
t?hi
tetr tlib,lsa h  u,    f : hs : 
l i ta mran endam 
 oa w,tuno  how many miles I've fallen by this time s.oola odeeo udalotsw oa  tad
phe getting somewhere near the centre of the earth.   
oet
me see:  that would be four thousand miles down, I think--'   hn   i 

CtrottwhAlice had learnt several things of this sort in her
lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a   hs : 
yg good
opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to
listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over  he `--yes,
that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what  
oatitude
or  
oongitude I've got to s.o    declice had no idea what  
oatitude was,
or  
oongitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to
say.  he

    htctTna xshe began again.  `I wonder if I shall fall right
T  m  w mfdf: t the eartham    tow funny it'll seem to come out among the
people that walk with their heads downwardam  twa 
 ne'pathies, I
think--'   hn, e was rather glad there WA skerone listening, this
time, as it didn't sound at all the right word  he `--but I shall
have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know.
  ht tdetwh s tnoet
his this   h ew     ba udnp i  
 nd
u utoeol'   h'npola . onhsgo curtsey as she spoke--fancy  yh he  wt,w  :
tI  h    tcey dadire falling
through the airam   .o you think you could manage it sh  df`And what
an ignorant little girl she'll think me for askingam    fsloentll
never do to ask:  perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.'

    ti
t?hi
t?hi
tetr twao e was nothing else to do, so Alice soon
began talking again.  `  t'nah'll miss me very much to-night, I
should thinka.i    hu t'nah was the cat.  he  `I hope they'll remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time.    t'nah my dearam oa 
ta,  you were
down here with meam  twao e are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.
  t n t do cats eat bats, I wonder s.o 
 neo dt a 
 eme n ohegan to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `  ti ho's eat bats sh   .o cats eat bats s.o nupd ta.otaowh`  ti g cis eat cats s.oh  i 
hyou see, as she couldn't answer either
  haIstion, it didn't much matter which way she put it.   sya h ahg
that she was do   gtng off, and had   
ad
phegun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with   t'nah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `  h ow,   t'nah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat s.o
laaptbeaiuz lsayi It thumpamhi
teola hoeta ad pn a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she   
ayi i,dpo on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead s  ohefore her
was another long passage, and the White   
tehbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was   
ad
pnDota mrhear it
say, as it turned a corner, `  t
  thha n oknp
loS no s, how late
it's gettinga.i   sya 
dey ehi:behind it when she turned the
corner, but the   
tehbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked s  ,neo
laa- eme n  cpoheen all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

   sdbeaiuxshe came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass s  mdt a 
decessonet on it e y cept a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall s  ohut, alasamaoesao  the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.    msgt ni 
hon the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fittedam,h 
 eme n  i itn,lsa hi i   nub  ivpmci it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
  msAhdyhi!ed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head through the doorway s  
  nuIven if
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.    t

hhow I wish
I could shut up like a telescopeam oa mdan  pa hoib,shif I only
know how to begin.'     Ao , you see, so many out-of-the-way things
had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few
things indeed were really impossible.

  There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it,   hnh which
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,  he and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `  tr gdfh    t  oy Test ddn tifully printed on it in large letters.

  It was all very well to say `  tuone o ta
ai but the wise little
Alice was not going to do T  T ot,tn a hurry.  `  h o, I'll look
first,' she said, `and see whether it's marked  
g pison 
`i  ai.i s  w  or she had read several nice little histories about children who
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant
things, all because they W  th he ,ftvtmo emember the simple rules
their friends had taught them:  such as, that a red-hot poker
will burn you if you hold it too long s   nuO at if you cut your
finger   hs : 
yg deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds s   nupla  cpgnt ni  h  i 
iT'emci, if you drink much from a bottle marked
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or
later.

    msgt ni 
hthis bottle was   h   t
eyvy aso
 oooison,' so Alice ventured
to taste it, and finding it very nice,   hntt had, in fact, a sort
of mi y ed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast
turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,  he she very soon finished
it off.

       hf        l          l          l          l          l          l ,h           l          l          l          l          l          l ,h       l          l          l          l          l          l          l ,h 
  tlci a curious feelinga.i said Alice s  
 oa  tad
phe shutting up
like a telescope.'

  And so it was indeed:  she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right
si   grfor going through the little door into that lovely garden.
   ,trst, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was
going to shrink any further:  she felt a little nervous about
this s  
 h  i  oertoetht end, you know,' said Alice to herself, `in my
going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be
like then s.o 
 neoola . onhOy  ancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

  After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once s  ohut, alas for poor Aliceamw, en she got to the door, she found she had forgotten the
little golden key, and when she went back to the table for it,
she found she could not possibly reach it:  she could see it
  hapen oolainly through the glass, and she tried her best to climb
up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery s  ,neo
laapla  cp.ac,yao self out with trying,
the poor little thing sat down and cried.

  ` ymme, there's no use in crying like thata.i said Alice to
herself, rather sharply s  
 oa  uuntse you to leave off this minutea.i
 sya 
nano ally gave herself very good advice,   hnocalth she very
seldom followed it  he, and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes s   nuriuarshe remembered
trying to bo y  her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of cro  haIt she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `  t n t it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two peopleam  tll w
ghere's hardly enough of me left to make   th h   tc aot iAtable
persona.i

   sc ie dt  ah:fell on a little glass bo y  that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `  tw sekhh tti were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key s   nupe   it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door s  od aoesao  way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happensa.i

   sya  'e a little bit, and said an y iously to herself, `Which
way sh  tlda oR uhol', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was   hapen otp prised to
find that she remained the same si   gE   to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of e y pecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed   hapen hnl
h nupgupid for life to go on in the
common way.

   sc ola otg to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

       hf        l          l          l          l          l          l ,h           l          l          l          l          l          l ,h       l          l          l          l          l          l          l ,h,h`                          hhftA  hweHf
d eI

                        The   hg sh s   Tears


  ` yap iouser and curiousera.i cried Alice   hn, e was so much
surprised, that for the moment she   hapen h  i 
im c
yi ot idro
i so`TnWo?   dch  `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever wasam    Tdhug l twhfeeta.i   hn   i  
laapla hd s asohi
te ' her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
far off  he.  `  t

hmy poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears sh oaatm sure     Ea    o
ol nnit
be ableam oa ol u, ohe a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best way you can s  o
-but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to goam   ,tg me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every  y
o istmas.'

  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought s  
  nurc
y  unny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feetam 
 neo c
kheomdl,euahaatons will lookam,h           
 r,t e yh tti sf  gdf tftT    ` th t
esh  tc
  m .
                  m Tho  wt`m  w  df.hw                      h   tw r w t`m :   ` tfh   tr: 
s
f                        h!ddleft A 
oI yh tti sf ,fth hs : he.

  t
 hn n 
hwhat nonsense I'm talkinga.i

      vpg then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

    hg i  
 eme n et  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye s  ohut to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  ` 
tou ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
girl like you,'   hn, e might well say this  he, `to go on crying in
this wayam  o,oi rthis moment, I tell youa.i    t n t she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White   
tehbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, `  t
 et the   tnl saot
lmdf tnl saothet   t
 et won't she
be savage if I've kept her waitinga.i  Alice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one s  od
hwhen the   
tehbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
sir--'  The   
tehbit started violently, dropped the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
as he could go.

  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
`  tn n 
hdearam    tow   haIer everything is to-dayam 
 neohTwno day
things went on   
ad
rnhad. al.  I wonder if I've been changed in
the night sh   ,tg me think:  was I the same when I got up this
morning sh oa  ulpst think I can remember feeling a little
different.    t n t if I'm not the same, the ne y t   haIstion is, Who in
the world am I sh 
 s
hT  T ottep`the great pu   w  
Ea.i  And she began
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
them.

  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all s   nupaatm
sure I can't be  s tehel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
ohamola h ni
thotbofeoa' hhhtaaa tdg    t 'meai
l o` m Tep`she, and I'm I,
and--oh dear, how pu   w  
Onsperu, o)t  I'll try if I know all the
things I used to know.   
oet me see:  four times five is twelve,
and four times si y  is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dearamg e shall never get to twenty at that rateam    towever, the
 s n ltiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try    tustraphy.
 
oondon is the capital of   hge is, and   hge is is the capital of   
t ta

dnp   wOi g gesl t`T ottep`all wrong, I'm certainam oa  tad
rceauoheen
changed for  s tehelam oaatll try and say  
` tow doth the little-- 
gi
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--

            `  msCtmHhe little crocodile
              Improve his shining tail,
            And pour the waters of the   h ile
                taeaoa' hh
ih,'eoAaleam,h           
    tow cheerfully he seems to grin,
                msAndily spread his claws,
            And welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling   
 Yhet'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be  s tehel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have ne y t to no toys to play with, and ohamaoa'  od ,oany lessons to learnam    fsloaatve made up my mind about it s  oe   I'm
 s tehel, I'll stay down heream oa.ill be no use their putting their
heads down and saying  
xlOrup again, dearam wfI shall only look
up and say  
,a A  et oa mdteol  Tell me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
here till I'm somebody else 
g g g dEl b deara.i cried Alice, with a
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they W  th he ,ftpout their heads
downam oa  et od    dh tf
yg tired of being all alone herea.i

  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
surprised to see that she had put on one of the   
tehbit's little
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `  ms`hhs r foa  ceauhian ws ' s.oola mcaltht.  `I must be growing small again.'   sya 
imad -and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
hastily,   
ad
pnDota mravoid shrinking away altogether.

`That WA sfeaie row escapea.i said Alice, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
e y istence s  
  nuvt
y  or the gardena.i and she ran with all speed
back to the little door:  but, alasammdymeee:door was shut
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
`for I never was so small as this before, neveram 
 neooa hnha de e
it's too bad, that it isa.i

  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
moment, splashamola 
decpo to her chin in salt water.    .t  h ouog
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.    hnha ta arhad
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the   tt!lish coast you find
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
behind them a railway station.  he    msgt ni 
hshe soon made out that
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
feet high.

  `I wish I hadn't cried so mucha.i said Alice, as she swam about,
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
suppose, by being drowned in my own tearsam  tw ' WI 
o 
o be a   haIer
thing, to be suream    towever, everything is   haIer to-day.'

      vpg then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.

  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
mouse sh   Tdno ything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
trying.'   sc ola ohegan:  `  th s tadThloryou know the way out of
this pool sh oa  et oa' hh.ac,ch  owtot tonet about here,   th s tadWsnt
  hnha ta arthought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
seen in her brother's  
oatin    te ammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
mouse--a mouse--  thmousea.i  he  The  s tad:looked at her rather
in  hap!aatvely, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
eyes, but it said nothing.

  `  hti  ceos it doesn't understand   tt!lish,' thought Alice s  
 oa won aodrcaae;e   
o ench mouse, come over with William the
 ymn  haIror.'    hu  Ao , with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.  he   sc ola g dwincsiense   `  taraog ma chatte s.o
loe s 
deysa h ouog sentence in
her    ,ctuoPimdaug c s otr twa  oyiptytave a sudden leap out of the
water, and seemed to   hapuni   u,  i ni  
taoNo ight.  `  t

hI beg
your pardona.i cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
poor animal's feelings.  `I   hapen h  i 
imhhirh'dn't like cats.'

  `  h ot like catsa.i cried the  s tadThdaua shrill, passionate
voice.  `Would  
t  th hehta  n ho's if you were me s.o,h 
  tds

looerhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat   t'nah:
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
 sya oMgbofehn n     ceonmmdanT no
 eme n 
tt' on, half to herself,
as she swam la   gtly about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardona.i cried Alice again,
for this time the  s tad:was bristling all over, and she felt
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

  `We indeeda.i cried the  s tadThl, o was trembling down to the end
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a sub  
ahaoet    tap  family
always   T ot`tftbo's:  nasty, low, vulgar thingsam   .on't let me hear
the name againa.i

  `I won't indeeda.i said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
sub  
ahao s   conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs s.o,a
a  oyiptyatd not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show youamwc little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
brown hairam 
 neooentll fetch things when you throw them, and
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred poundsam` te says it kills all the rats and--oh deara.i cried Alice in a
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it againa.i     Ao  the
 s tad:was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
making   hapen  ehoBootion in the pool as it went.

   sc ola hou,ahpdh Whh u .t  oeel
  oyiptyavkg    ti hoOrback
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
like thema.i  When the  s tad:heard this, it turned round and swam
slowly back to her:  its face was   hapen ooale   hn
ith passion, Alice
thought  he, and it said in a low trembling voice, ` 
oet us get to
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting   hapen hak
,LwgaoHhe birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
  tnl e o nure  .odo, a  
oory and an   tdseTahcnpott ni  ukmdt  haeo ious
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
shore.



                            yh T o  lg`tf
d eII

                  A  y.ehaeot ` wuarand a  
oong Tale


  They were indeed a   haIer-looking party that assembled on the
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
uncomfortable.

  The first   haIstion of course was, how to get dry again:  they
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
  hapen aiiural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
  hapen  ehdaet argument with the  
oory, who at last turned sulky,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better' s  ,neomdaFa ta arwould not allow without knowing how old it was,
and, as the  
oory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
more to be said.

  At last the  s tadThl, o seemed to be a person of authority among
them, called out, ` sdaohi
t? u,  s   you, and listen to meam oaat 
o 
o
soon make you dry enougha.i  They all sat down at once, in a large
ring, with the  s tad:in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
an y iously fi y ed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahema.i said the  s tad:with an important air, `are you all ready sh,a
oMts the driest thing I know.   sda ttuarall round, if you pleaseam`wleaa ,oig mdfymn  haIror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the   tt!lish, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and con  haIst.    t,stauand
 s to car, the earls of  s ' hata and   h orthumbria-- 
gi

  `  h!ha.i said the  
oory, with a shiver.

  `I beg your pardona.i said the  s tadThl  rowning, but very
politely:  `  t'd you speak s.o,h 
    fspa et' said the  
oory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the  s tadWaj --I proceed.   
`T egauand
 s to car, the earls of  s ' hata and   h orthumbria, declared for him:
and even  sl'gand, the patriotic archbishop of  y.nai ohury, found
it advisable-- 
gi

  `   Aadurtl  tAT s.oodeeomdf tnl e otslf`   Aadupa tthnomdfs tad:replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what  
gao wHa nnhtnt

  `I know what  
gao wHa nnh
t,hctei-s
hwhen I find a thing,' said
the   tnl e otf `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The   haIstion is,
what did the archbishop find s.o,h  twa  oyiptyatd not notice this   haIstion, but hurriedly went on,
` 
g g w  ound it advisable to go with   t,sie  Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
moderate.    t n t the insolence of his   h ormans-- 
`   tow are you
getting on now, my dear s.ooeboi'inued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.

  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me at all.'

  `In that case,' said the   tihi odhtliuz d o!anmmrits feet, `I
move that the meeting ad  
 ip n, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  ` sd idro  TnWo? et' said the   tdseTotr
 oa hiantt know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
eithera.i  And the   tdseToohent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the   tihi onrne s  fended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a  y.ehaeot g  uaD'

  `What I sfe hhtn cus-race s.oodeeo
 eme n ofaimmci she wanted much
to know, but the   tihi  cpooaused as if it thought that  sfmdhh tft Hh trwsdaltht to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the   tihi
h`the best way to e y plain it is to do it.'
  hnhan el nhhhir toetht like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the   tihi  t ne!ed it.  he

     ,trst it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle,   hnh the
e y act shape doesn't matter,' it said,  he and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `  tanw
gwo, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.    msgt ni 
hwhen they had been running half
an hour or so, and were   hapen huhh !ain, the   tihi otbeaiuxcalled
out `The race is overa.i and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `  t n t who has won s.o,h  two;  ceaogion the   tihi hoib,desrnn
gt  
taocalre
ua ' deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead   hnodc psition in which you usually see  sy u not ide e,
in the pictures of him  he, while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the   tihi odeeahlf : hs : 
yg  t Hh trwrcey,t? nuru,  tad
rceaug i or 
'htnt

  `  t n t who is to give the pri   gihol'   hapen  ehoco us of voices
asked.

  `Why,  sf t  twhof course,' said the   tihi
hpointing to Alice with
one finger s   nuO e whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `  htco  
'het   htco  
'het'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a bo y  of comfits,   hn tba  'ly the salt
water had not got into it  he, and handed them round as pri   gihtsle,i a 
decy kree
 kan  n g ias n  u, o ound.

  `  t n t she must have a pri   grherself, you know,' said the  s tadWaw
  `  to   course,' the   tihi o eplied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket s.o dygt' on, turning to Alice.

  `  tauxa thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `  mnuperi ni   dt a
ai said the   tihi tslfThen they all crowded round her once more, while the   tihi ghsWonly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble' s   nuel
laapercph on'shed this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh s   nuel nhola hoib,dessghink of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The ne y t thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.    msgt ni 
hit was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the  s tad:to tell them something more.

  ` 
tou promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate-- yhand   tedepla  ueasoonre
lo! it 
hhalf
afraid that it would be offended again.

  ` s enn o;ehdaet and a sad talea.i said the  s tadThlnd a'ng to
Alice, and sighing.

  `It I sfehdaet tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the  s tadTeMona ch  `but why do you call it sad s.o 
 neoghdy ai srieoou   w  
Onsrn calpe-loe:the  s tad:was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `   ,eo y said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
             
`,tg us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                     
t  th hetro
- ymme,
                       I'll take no
                        denial s   td-                     must have a
                 trial:     Ao 
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do. 
,h           oAeeomdlf           mouse to the
               cur,  
A
al s `                e. oi-l`                 hn n   o,tr,
                         With
                     no   
ad hh`                 i     ,ehete,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath. 
,h                wt e'll be
                   
ala.whI'll
                   be   
ad h
l wlf                        sceeo`                  haean'ng
                      old    ,eo y:
                      
g e'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death. 
gi


  ` 
tou are not attendinga.i said the  s tad:to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of s.o,h 
 oa oheg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think s.o,h 
 oa  cp   f mggg' cried the  s tadThdhce ply and very angrily.

  `A knota.i said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking an y iously about her.  `  t

hdo let me help to undo ita.i

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the  s tadThltetting up
and walking away.  ` 
tou insult me by talking such nonsensea.i

  `I didn't mean ita.i pleaded poor Alice.  `  t n t you're so easily
offended, you knowa.i

  The  s tad:only growled in reply.

  `  ht tdety i ta ohack and finish your storya.i Alice called after
it s   nuO e others all   
 iansoonboco us, ` 
tes, please doa.i but
the  s tad:only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
  hape e ai  tslf`What a pity it wouldn't staya.i sighed the  
oory, as soon as it
was   hapen  iQs   sight s   nurne s
o hhe ab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dearam   ,tg this be a lesson to you
never to lose  
t  th he  w.li it  et'  `  ms
ohhip  tongue,  s ttg' said the
young  ya  n ll ehtaaa tc.teopishly.  ` 
tou're enough to try the
patience of an oystera.i

  `I wish I had our   t'nah here, I know I doa.i said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  ` syaatd soon fetch it backa.i

  `And who is   t'nah, if I might venture to ask the   haIstion s.oghna O e  
oory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `  t'nah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't thinkam 
 neo b, I wish you could see her
after the birdsam  tll whshe'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at ita.i

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
 sc ta  s   the birds hurried off at once:  one old  s tsuiarbegan
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home s  mdcnamlu,'r doesn't suit my throata.i and a  y.'e y
called out in a trembling voice to its children, ` ymme away, my
dearsam oa.is high time you were all in beda.i    taeoate ious prete y ts
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

  `I wish I hadn't mentioned   t'naha.i she said to herself in a
melancholy tone.  `  h obody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the worldam   m,hys yavf  t'naham oa w,tuno  if I shall ever see you any morea.i  And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the  s tad:had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                            yh T o  lg`tf
d e  hs,h                twa    wn d dao o,iuMtn a  
oittle   t ee
h,h`oam
deysa  tldaar  
tehbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking an y iously about as it went, as if it had lost something s  ,neoola  dde d it muttering to itself `The   tnl saothet  The   tnl saothet
  t
  thhhn n  ooawsam   m`my fur and whiskersam  oCiill get me
e y ecuted, as sure as ferrets are ferretsam  tldt a  hhs r foa  ceauwakooped them, I wonder s.o 
 eme n 
ndtmt,daua moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

    hii hhod iemdf 
tehbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why,  s te y Ann, what A  
HlCtrhionet out here sh    gearc ta mda`t Oi', and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fanam   m uick, nowa.i  And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to e y plain the mistake it had made.

  `  .yi s o ta h  i   da`cadWoaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`  msA. rprised he'll be when he finds out who I amam   maBdtid
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W.   
s rmh t ea ttestt!raved upon it.   sya 
tt' in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real  s te y Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `  ms`  ceaao  it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbitam oa otpopose   t'nah'll be sending me on
messages ne y ta.i  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  ` 
Ahaagh
 eme n et   ymme here directly, and get ready
for your walkam wf
xlOtng in a minute, nurseam   maBdtive got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out. 
`  mn- c e don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let   t'nah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like thata.i

    t rysoMatme she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it   h'echdqeo cooed  he a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was   
ad
-ionet to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `  tr gdfh    t  oy Thnog dBni ni md,aothola aduoi h nhpernupout it to her lips.  `I know
 sfmdhh tleftI  h    tdanai aoging is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything s  od oaatll   
ad
ptty, at this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm   hapen .ac,ch  oheing such a tiny little thinga.i

  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had e y pected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.   sya  cegily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's   hapen aaialth--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk   hapen od ,oucha.i

  Alasamoe-deyi rlate to wish thatam  oCrwent on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.   sl'll she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `  h ow I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WI 
o 
o become of me s.o,h   ,tba  'ly for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of lifeam oa hi 
daeai  
l '  yoc  h  have happened to meam,a ,ieoa adT Oc a ub  nay t wiEs, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of oneam  twao e
ought to be a book written about me, that there oughtam 
 neo
laast e grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tone s  
  ' least there's no room to grow up any more
  m : 
Hlneslf`  t n t then,' thought Alice, `shall I   h   tfhs : 
ltet any older than I
am now sh  tw ''ll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman--
but then--always to have lessons to learnam   m,hd e shouldn't like T  T otgg'

  `  t

hyou foolish Alicea.i she answered herself.  `  msxinl day,a n abttmdaMtn here sh  tll whthere's hardly room for  
t  th h? nuvt g  pm at all for any lesson-booksa.i

  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making   hapen  ehoin ni odiion of it altogether s  ohut after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  ` s te y Annam  oyn hh
 nnig' said the voice.  `   ,se s  ta  thh
ehi nihwso;t Oi'a.i  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Alice knew it was the   
tehbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house,   hapen h  i 
nTenet that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the   
tehbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

    htctTna xthe   
tehbit came up to the door, and tried to open it s  g dEl nhmdyopr opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'

  `T  T ot, hir
dantt' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the   
tehbit   
ad
v nder the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.   sya h'd not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
  
ad
poossible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

    h e y t came an angry voice--the   
tehbit's--`  hgiam   ltiam  tldt a  n a w dakhti  And then a voice she had never heard before, ` sdp e then
I'm heream   .igging for apples, yer honoura.i

  `  t'gging for apples, indeeda.i said the   
tehbit angrily.  `  .t a et
 ymme and help me out of T  . e scg'    huscadu;s   more broken glass.  he

  `  h ow tell me,   hgi, what's that in the window s.o,h 
  o,eo e, it's an arm, yer honoura.i    hu .c i  ieivrnhpe-  n o um.'  he

  `An arm, you gooseam   tlc aoa'  odskan mci si   grsh  tll whit
fills the whole windowa.i

  ` sdp e, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
awaya.i

  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then s  otbofn
l
  o,eo e, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at alla.i  `  ti  nhoa .,hy dallhhirhos,uhig' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TW  thlittle shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must bea.i thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do ne y tam 
 M   i  g ib,onet me out of the window, I only wish they  yh th he ,ftig  I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longera.i

   sya 
deenhb  i  od ta .ota 
taocalrdde ing anything more:  at
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a
good many voices all talking together:  she made out the words:
`Where's the other ladder sm
-Why, I hadn't to bring but one s  `maa ,ats got the other--  t ee
het fetch it here, lada. g ` tere, put 'em up
at this corner--  h o, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
high enough yet--  t
 et they'll do well enough s  hiantt be particular--
  .t a
h  t ee
het catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear sm
- s eneows ' loose slate--  t

hit's coming downam    teads belowa.i   h'lhibsArash  he--`  h ow, who did that sm
-It was   t ee

loa h  nua m
-Who's to go
down the chimney sm
-  h ay, I shan'tam  wrmfdlorita. g ,a
 ' I won't,
thena. g `maa ,ats to go down--  .t a
h  t ee
het the master says you're to
go down the chimneya.i

  `  t
 et  sc   maa ,ats got to come down the chimney, has he s.oodeeowclice to herself.  ` syh
lmdxseem to put everything upon   t ee
het
I wouldn't be in   t ee
.aA shuarfor a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure s  ohut I T  . e  h    t oa honeh 'ck a littlea.i

   sya hua
Uo  foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal   hn, e couldn't guess of what
sort it was  he scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is   t ee

depla 
ieau inlthce p kick, and waited to see what would happen ne y t.

  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
  t ee
het' then the   
tehbit's voice along--` y.a ofdot
hyou by the
hedgea.i then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`  ms
ogpo his head--  t e andy now--  tiantt choke him--  msz nhoeel s
oh ah, sAhlle
 ' happened to you sh  tts
hadh u,  n calpeig'

   
oast came a little feeble, s  haIaking voice,   hnh That's   t ee

desghought Alice,  he `Well, I hardly know--  h o more, thank ye s  oaatm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a     pua  uganlghe-bo y , and up I goes
like a sky-rocketa.i

  ` sc hhirh'd, old fellowa.i said the others.

  `We must burn the house downa.i said the   
tehbit's voice s   nusw eme n hou,ahriQnhhdalo nhola hoib,sh`If you do.  I'll set
  t'nah at youa.i

  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder what they WI 
o 
o do ne y tam oah  mdxhad any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they
began moving about again, and Alice heard the   
tehbit say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of W  T ot,,at thought Alice s  ohut she had not long to
doubt, for the ne y t moment a shower of little pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
` 
tou'd better not do that againa.i which produced another dead
silence.

  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head.  `If I eat one of these cakes,' she
thought, `it's sure to make  sfmdhh ty s n!e in my si   grs   nurnhoesAan't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.'

   sc ola owd-hsg,can  s   the cakes, and was delighted to find
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
found   hapen  ehak
,ch  htaaa tknesv th nuphirds waiting outside.
The poor little  
oi   wn hel  maa ,
hwas in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared s  ohut she
ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a
thick wood.

  `The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right si   gragain s  ,neomdcT oiuO ing is to find my way into that lovely garden.
I think that will be the best plan.'

  It sounded an e y cellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
simply arranged s  mdkae
 yatfficulty was, that she had not the
smallest idea how to set about it s   nu-loe:she was peering
about an y iously among the trees, a little sharp bark   
ad
ri ni  , er head made her look up in a great hurry.

  An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round
eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.
`  hg i  htaaa tysoneta.i said Alice, in a coa y ing tone, and she tried
hard to whistle to it s  ohut she was terribly frightened all the
time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it
would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coa y ing.

    mn he
 y a'
tanm
l ' she did, she picked up a little bit of
stick, and held it out to the puppy s  
lao eupon the puppy   
ayi i,winto the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it s  mdte
 eme n wosa.,d dloneo e
ua ' thistle, to keep herself from being run
over s   nuO e moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy
made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in
its hurry to get hold of it s  mdte
 eme n
hthinking it was very
like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and e y pecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle
again s  mdtemdc ipopy began a series of short charges at the
stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long
way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat
down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its
mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

  This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape s  ghrshe set off at once, and ran till she was   hapen .ac,cnp iOhs   breath, and till the puppy's bark sounded   hapen h  nanoonO e
distance.

  `And yet what a dear little puppy it wasa.i said Alice, as she
leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself
with one of the leaves:  `I should have liked teaching it tricks
very much, if--if I'd only been the right si   grto do itam   mz n n  et  I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up againam   ,tg
me see--how I skaomrbe managed sh oa otpopose I ought to eat or
drink something or other s  ohut the great   haIstion is, what s.o,h  twa 
ua '   haIstion certainly was, what sh 
 eme n hd s aso u, o ound
her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see
anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under
the circumstances.  There was a large mushroom growing near her,
about the same height as herself s   nu-laapla  cphd s asoaduno 
it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her
that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it.

   sya ogretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of
the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large
caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded,
  hapnWhholpking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice
of her or of anything else.



                             yh T o  lg`tf
f d
lf                  Advice from a  y.ai ooillar


  The  y.ai ooillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in
silence:  at last the  y.ai ooillar took the hookah out of its
mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.

  `Who are  
t  th heol' said the  y.ai ooillar.

  This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation.  Alice
replied, rather shyly, `I--I hardly know, sir,   
ad
r' present--
at least I know who I WA sR dteoa 
imad rthis morning, but I think
I must have been changed several times since then.'

  `What do you mean by that s.oodeeomdfy.ai ooillar sternly.
`  ty c shnauyourselfa.i

  `I can't e y plain  s yg sf:
o   ,hd e'm afraid, sir' said Alice, `because
I'm not myself, you see.'

  `I don't see,' said the  y.ai ooillar.

  `I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly,' Alice replied very
politely, `for I can't understand it myself to begin with s   nust dtanmod  t nuhh'fferent si   gihonrehircaA ni hhhoiu admnet.'

  `It isn't,' said the  y.ai ooillar.

  `Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet,' said Alice s  
 ohut
when you have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you
know--and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll
feel it a little   haIer, won't you s.o,h 
    fsreohit,' said the  y.ai ooillar.

  `Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,' said Alice s  wfu, oa h ni
cawloe-dal
oh aahc ni hh   ceaao  to  s Hlneslf` 
toua.i said the  y.ai ooillar contemptuously.  `Who are  
t  th heol'

  Which brought them back again to the beginning of the
conversation.  Alice felt a little irritated at the  y.ai ooillar's
making such   hs : 
yg short remarks, and she drew herself up and said,
very gravely, `I think, you ought to tell me who  
t  th he n a
hfirst.'

  `Why s.oodeeomdfy.ai ooillar.

    .t a 
dekntmdt  oou   w  
Onsr  ceaogion s   nurnh
 eme n hoib,dessghink of any good reason, and as the  y.ai ooillar seemed to be in
a   hs : 
yg unpleasant state of mind, she turned away.

  ` ymme backa.i the  y.ai ooillar called after her.  `I've something
important to saya.i

  This sounded promising, certainly:  Alice turned and came back
again.

  `   taaoo your temper,' said the  y.ai ooillar.

  `Is that all s.oodeeo
 eme n
hswallowing down her anger as well as
she could.

  `  h o,' said the  y.ai ooillar.

  Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else
to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth
hearing.     Ao  some minutes it puffed away without speaking, but
at last it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth
again, and said, ` sc hhirmdan  bhivacy s n!ed, do you s.o,h 
 oaatm afraid I am, sir,' said Alice s  
 oa honnit remember things as
I used--and I don't keep the same si   grfor ten minutes togethera.i

  ` y.neep emember W  T ot,odan.hol' said the  y.ai ooillar.

  `Well, I've tried to say  
` t  t
eh  trmg`m t`m : 
oITT 
o  tf t fdd
  wr mh tftwh
A dBtt
all came differenta.i Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.

  `  
' idi,  
`wrmfdlc  
Hf th
o  tel   

 seft  tf
yea e 
o 
oIA s sh
gi said the  y.ai ooillar.

  Alice folded her hands, and began:--

    ` 
tou are old,    Aiher William,' the young man said,
      `And your hair has become very white s  `  
 neohTohhirone nothn'ly stand on your head--
        ti hhirmdan  el ' your age, it is right s.o,h   
 oaarthhhhiO ,'    Aiher William replied to his son,
      `I feared it might in  
ad a mdc d  naus  `    maElai
ys ' I'm perfectly sure I have none,
      Why, I do it again and again.'

    ` 
tou are old,' said the youth, `as I mentioned before,
      And have grown most uncommonly fat s  `    wnmhhir.p ned a back-somersault in at the door--
        htkrwhwhat is the reason of that s.o,h   
 oaarthhhhiO ,' said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
      `I kept all my limbs very supple
      t rysa ad:of this ointment--one shilling the bo y --
      Allow me to sell you a couple s.o,h   
   wiafn a  s
ahnoodeeomdy dals
h`and your   
 Yh n a mp weak
         Ao  anything tougher than suet s  `    wnmhhirh on'shed the goose, with the bones and the beak--
        htkrqwyatd you manage to do it s.o,h   
 oaarthhhhiO ,' said his father, `I took to the law,
      And argued each case with my wife s  `  
 neomdHad
 nlhn  ogrength, which it gave to my   
 "l`       tas lasted the rest of my life.'

    ` 
tou are old,' said the youth, `one would hardly suppose
      That your eye was as steady as ever s  `    wnmhhirohalanced an eel on the end of your nose--
      What made you so awfully clever s.o,h   
 oa  ceau nn
gt ahO ree   haIstions, and that is enough,'
       sceeo dax ather s  
 hiantt give yourself airsam`    .o you think I can listen all day to such stuff sh`      makh h 
hor I'll kick you down stairsa.i


  `That is not said right,' said the  y.ai ooillar.

  `  h ot   t    dea t`tc oetht, I'm afraid,' said Alice, timidly s  
 od ta  s   the
words have got altered.'

  `It is wrong from beginning to end,' said the  y.ai ooillar
decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.

  The  y.ai ooillar was the first to speak.

  `What si   grdo you want to be s.ooern
 asotslf`  t

hI'm not particular as to si   gsde- eme n  cegily replied s  wfiuxone doesn't like changing so often, you know.'

  `I   trmfkiT know,' said the  y.ai ooillar.

  Alice said nothing:  she had never been so much contradicted in
her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

  `Are you content now s.oodeeomdfy.ai ooillar.

  `Well, I should like to be a  
oITT 
o  tyhn 
no , sir, if you
wouldn't mind,' said Alice:  `three inches is such a wretched
height to be.'

  `It is a very good height indeeda.i said the  y.ai ooillar
angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke   hntt was e y actly three
inches high  he.

  `  t n t I'm not used to ita.i pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone.
And she thought of herself, `I wish the creatures wouldn't be so
easily offendeda.i

  ` 
tou'll get used to it in time,' said the  y.ai ooillar s   nupest iBodqdh i`into its mouth and began smoking again.

  This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again.
In a minute or two the  y.ai ooillar took the hookah out of its
mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself.  Then it got
down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely
remarking as it went, `  tancmearwill make you grow taller, and
the other side will make you grow shorter.'

  `  tancmearof W  T ot,,   twa  ssao  side of W  T ot,,at thought Alice to
herself.

  `  to   the mushroom,' said the  y.ai ooillar,   
ad
rnhoe   she had
asked it aloud s   nupnrnessao  moment it was out of sight.

  Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a
minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it s   nurnhgao
dec it h ahaa xround, she found this a very difficult   haIstion.
  msgt ni 
hat last she stretched her arms round it as far as they
would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.

  `And now which is which s.oola odeeomrherself, and nibbled a
little of the right-hand bit to try the effect:  the ne y t moment
she felt a violent blow underneath her chin:  it had struck her
footam,h  oCrwas a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but
she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking
rapidly s  od ola otg to work at once to eat some of the other bit.
  .t  hodauwas pressed so closely against her foot, that there was
hardly room to open her mouth s  ohut she did it at last, and
managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.


       hf        l          l          l          l          l          l ,h           l          l          l          l          l          l ,h       l          l          l          l          l          l          l ,h 
  hht ta
hmy head's free at lasta.i said Alice in a tone of
delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she
found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found:  all she could
see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which
seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay
far below her.

  `What  yoc  h  all that green stuff be s.oodeeo
 eme n tr
 
 neo
lao e
  T o  dh tHhhol ib,' oytot to sh 
 neo b, my poor hands, how is it I
can't see you s.o  oCrwas moving them about as she spoke, but no
result seemed to follow, e y cept a little shaking among the
distant green leaves.

  As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her
head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted
to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction,
like a serpent.   sya  cp   ,eog succeeded in curving it down into a
graceful    gtg   w!, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which
she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she
had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a
hurry:  a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating
her violently with its wings.

  ` sdt ooenta.i screamed the   httgeon.

  `I'm   h   t
ecdTc it'a.i said Alice indignantly.  ` 
oet me alonea.i

  ` sdt ooent, I say againa.i repeated the   httgeon, but in a more
subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, `I've tried every
way, and nothing seems to suit thema.i

  `I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,' said
Alice.

  `I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've
tried hedges,' the   httgeon went on, without attending to her s  
 ohut
those serpentsam  twao e's no pleasing thema.i

  Alice was more and more pu   w  
Ed, but she thought there was no
use in saying anything more till the   httgeon had finished.

  `As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs,' said the
  httgeon s  
 ohut I must be on the look-out for serpents night and
dayam  tll whI haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeksa.i

  `I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was
beginning to see its meaning.

  `And   
ad
rnhoaatd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued
the   httgeon, raising its voice to a shriek, `and   
ad
rnhoa 
delghinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come
wriggling down from the skyam    dss
h sdt ooenta.i

  `  t n t I'm   h   t
ecdTc it', I tell youa.i said Alice.  `I'm a--I'm
a--'

  `Wellam  tl  tAT are you s.oodeeomdf httgeon.  `I can see you're
trying to invent somethinga.i

  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

  `A likely story indeeda.i said the   httgeon in a tone of the
deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never   th h   tygaok. ch a neck as thatam    fslai et   
tou're a
serpent s   nuO ere's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me ne y t that you never tasted an egga.i

  `I   T o  dh tyieged eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child s  
 ohut little girls eat eggs   hapen  nh tal s  nhgTc it's do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the   httgeon s  
 ohut if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was   hapen ota tt'
for a minute or two, which gave the   httgeon the opportunity of
adding, ` 
tou're looking for eggs, I know T  T ot,
ell enough s   nuswl ' does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent s.o,h 
 oam t 'ters a good deal to  s Hwai said Alice hastily s  
 ohut I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens s   nupe   I was, I shouldn't
want  
t  th he  woG   oa hiantt like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, thena.i said the   httgeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right si   gslws ' it felt   hapen ogrange at first s  ohut she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  ` ymme,
there's half my plan done nowam    tow pu   w  
Onsru, mdt:changes
aream oaatm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
anotheram    towever, I've got back to my right si   gE   the ne y t
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how I sHhat to be
done, I wonder s.o 
 M, e said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.
`Whoever lives there,' thought Alice, `it'll never do to come
upon them T  . e skmr 
utf why, I should frighten them out of their
witsa.i   sc ola ohegan nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did
not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself
down to nine inches high.



                            yh T o  lg`tf
f da e

                           httg and   hti i it  ,h`   
 i   e tonnln  i  Thrshe stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do ne y t, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--  hn, e considered him to be a footman
because he was in livery:  otherwise,   
ala.anmohy his face only,
she would have called him a fish  he--and rapped loudly at the door
with his knuckles.  It was opened by another footman in livery,
with a round face, and large eyes like a frog s   nuphoth footmen,
Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their
heads.   sya h ahg very curious to know what it was all about, and
crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

  The    ,tsh-   A ssvubegan by producing from under his arm a great
letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to
the other, saying, in a solemn tone, `   Ao  the   tnl saothtr
 nstand'tation from the   t adttemrplay cro  haIt.'  The    ,k
u` 
 ptman
repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the
words a little, `   ,k t mdf t adttetr
 npnunttation for the   tnl saothwi oolay cro  haIt.'

  Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled
together.

  Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into
the wood for fear of their hearing her s   nu-laapla an hhmooeeped
out the    ,tsh-   A ssvuwas gone, and the other was sitting on the
ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

  Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

  `There's no sort of use in knocking,' said the    A ssvnhlfnusghat for two reasons.     ,trst, because I'm on the same side of the
door as you are s  otAondly, because they're making such a noise
inside, no one could possibly hear you.'  And certainly there was
a most e y traordinary noise going on within--a constant howling
and snee   gtng, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish
or kettle had been broken to pieces.

  `  ht tdetwhthen,' said Alice, `how am I to get in s.o,h 
  twao e might be some sense in your knocking,' the    A ssvuwent
on without attending to her, `if we had the door between us.     Ao 
instance, if you were I  h  sd e  trThl daftoetht knock, and I could let
you out, you know.'    .y,M d s atng up into the sky all the time
he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.  `  t n t
perhaps he can't help it,' she said to herself s  
  daAGoke e so
  hs : 
yg nearly at the top of his head.    t n t at any rate he might
answer   haIstions.--  ms`et oa mrget in s.oola o epeated, aloud.

  `I shall sit here,' the    A ssvuremarked, `till tomorrow--'

  At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate
came skimming out, straight at the    A ssvne;ddptf it   
ad
swu e  
L daAeiThcnpohroke to pieces against one of the trees
behind him.

  `--or ne y t day, maybe,' the    A ssvucontinued in the same tone,
e y actly as if nothing had happened.

  `  ms`et oa mrget in s.o n
 aso
 eme n  !ain, in a louder tone.

  `A  
Hy daHo get in at all s.oodeeomdf  A ssv!r
  tw ''s the
first   haIstion, you know.'

  It was, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.
`It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the way all the
creatures argue.  It's enough to drive one cra   g het'

  The    A ssvuseemed to think this a good opportunity for
repeating his remark, with variations.  `I shall sit here,' he
said, `on and off, for days and days.'

  `  t n t what am I to do s.oodeeo
 eme n tslf`Anything you like,' said the    A ssvnhcnpohegan whistling.

  `  t

hthere's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately:
`he's perfectly idiotica.i  And she opened the door and went in.

  The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of
smoke from one end to the other:  the   tnl saoth
decmee'ng on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby s  mdy i s o
del,a nnanm i ni  mdy  ire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to
be full of soup.

  `There's certainly too much pepper in that soupa.i Alice said to
herself, as well as she could for snee   gtng.

  There was certainly too much of it in the air.    tt niemdlftnl saothotntf gso s e ietoieu,hhof nurnhh  i  mdc cehy, it was
snee   gtng and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The
only things in the kitchen that did not snee   gsl
tt a mdy i s ahwand a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `  ht tdety,tb,l daHell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not   hapen otp e whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that s.o,h 
 oa.is a  y
aoloua ho',' said the   tnl saot
l
  nuO at's why.    httga.i

   sya odeeomdyhn
-do d with such sudden violence that Alice
  hapen    ,e tooed s  ohut she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that  y
aoloua ho's always grinned s  onb  uaahd e
didn't know that cats  yh th he ,ft-uonsneslf`They all can,' said the   tnl saothof
  nurt i
rs   'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling   hapen ooleased to have got into a conversation.

  ` 
tou don't know much,' said the   tnl saothof
  nuO at's a fact.'

  Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought
it would be as well to introduce some other sub  
ahao s  
conversation.  While she was trying to fi y  on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the   tnl saoth nuO e baby
--the fire-irons came first s  mdteh  s
hsg,cdhc
tt   s   saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The   tnl saothmpk no notice of them even when
they hit her s   nuO e baby was howling so much already, that it
was   hapen osi pssible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `  t

h  hFr tw p` tHoneo
l ' you're doinga.i cried Alice,   
ayi ianmad -and down in an agony of terror.  `  t

hthere goes his   h`
Hy ddfth heoz'otti s   nh neadnptru,hhhde ge saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the   tnl saothodeeoonre, oarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would   h   t
ed dkncv 'niage,' said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her
knowledge.  `    vpg think of what work it would make with the day
and nightam   wiakTrthe earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its a y is--'

  `Talking of a y es,' said the   tnl saot
l
 hocoo off her heada.i

  Alice glanced rather an y iously at the cook, to see if she meant
to take the hint s  ohut the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I T  . e  h    t of i  oMtt twelve sh oao
-'

  `  t

hdon't bother  s Hwai said the   tnl saothof
 oa anoa'  hoib,cehide
figuresa.i  And with that she began nursing her child again,
singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a
violent shake at the end of every line:

        ` sd idroo oughly to your little boy,
          And beat him when he snee   gihtj          te only does it to annoy,
            t Mtn se he knows it teases.'

                     yh m mfw  dd
 tslf    hndte
loe s mdy i s o nuO e baby   
 ianso  dle --

                `Wowam
d
dg wowa.i

  While the   tnl saothodnsO e second verse of the song, she kept
tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing
howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:--

        `I speak severely to my boy,
          I beat him when he snee   gihof`         
 i   dy inls i  i-shxen  
 s lf        The pepper when he pleasesa.i

                     yh m mfw  dd
 tslf              `Wowam
d
dg wowa.i

  `  .t a et you may nurse it a bit, if you likea.i the   tnl saothodeeowi 
 eme n
hflinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and
get ready to play cro  haIt with the   t adtt(t and she hurried out of
the room.  The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,
but it   
ad
rto!T rdt  tslfAlice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a   haIer-
shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all
directions, `  
ad
bta  n  eogar-fish,' thought Alice.  The poor
little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,
so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,
  hn
hich was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself,  he she carried it out into the open air.  `I   `I
don't take this child away with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leave it
behind s.o  oCrsaid the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply   hntt had left off snee   gtng by this time  he.  `  tiantt
grunt,' said Alice s  
 mci's not at all a proper way of e y pressing
yourself.'

  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very an y iously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a   hs : 
yg turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose s   uthrits eyes were getting e y tremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
all.  `  t n t perhaps it was only sobbing,' she thought, and looked
into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

    h o, there were no tears.  `If you're going to turn into a pig,
my dear,' said Alice, seriously, `I'll have nothing more to do
with you.   s eneoai
dg'  The poor little thing sobbed again   h'o 
grunted, it was impossible to say which  he, and they went on for
some while in silence.

  Alice was   
ad
pheginning to think to herself, `  h ow, what am I
to do with this creature when I get it home s.o
laape-uad'ed
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some
alarm.  This time there could be   h   thmistake about it:  it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
  hapen  n d. rd for her to carry it further.

   sc ola otg the little creature down, and felt   hapen o elieved to
see it trot away   hapnWhhonei mdy,dhsu `If it had grown up,'
she said to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  And she began
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was   
ad
pdrtanmmrherself, `if one only knew the right
way to change them--' when she was a little startled by seeing
the  y
aoloua  hhti sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.

  The  y.o iuxgrinned when it saw Alice.  It looked good-
natured, she thought:  still it had   hs : 
yg long claws and a great
many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

  ` y
aoloua    ln ss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at
all know whether it would like the name:  however, it only
grinned a little wider.  ` ymme, it's pleased so far,' thought
Alice, and she went on.  `Would you tell me, please, which way I
ought to go from here s.o,h 
  tw ' depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said
the  y.otslf`I don't much care where--' said Alice.

  `Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said the  y.otslf`--so long as I get  sfmdhh tleh m : 
Hwai Alice added as an e y planation.

  `  t

hyou're sure to do that,' said the  y.ahlka   hhir iuxwalk
long enough.'

  Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
  haIstion.  `What sort of people live about here s.o,h 
 oaart`T ot, 'rection,' the  y.oodeeahl,untng its right paw round,
`lives a   m'ter:  and in T  T ot, 'rection,' waving the other paw,
`lives a  s te ch   mn a tr   daagaoaoesao  you like:  they're both mad.'

  `  t n t I don't want to go among mad people,' Alice remarked.

  `  t

hyou can't help that,' said the  y.otf `we're all mad here.
I'm mad.   
tou're mad.'

  `  msCt hhirh ni
c e'm mad s.oodeeo
 eme n tslf` 
tou must be,' said the  y.ahlfi  hhir
dal
aneerceauhoOrhere.'

  Alice didn't think that proved it at all s   c
tt ni 
hshe went on
`And how do you know that you're mad s.o,h 
  tg ohegin with,' said the  y.ahlfehi
nts not mad.   
tou grant
that s.o,h 
 oa otpopose so,' said Alice.

  `Well, then,' the  y.o
tt' on, `you see, a dog growls when it's
angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.    h ow I growl when I'm
pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.  Therefore I'm mad.'

  `I call it purring, not growling,' said Alice.

  ` y. , oe-l ' you like,' said the  y.otr
   .o you play cro  haIt
with the   t adttemi wouhol'

  `I should like it very much,' said Alice, `but I haven't been
invited yet.'

  ` 
tou'll see me there,' said the  y.ahcnpoatne?ahsS`
 eme n 
decesrtal s otp prised at this, she was getting so used
to   haIer things happening.  While she was looking at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

  `  t rt wsao
bye, what became of the baby s.oodeeomdfy.otr
 oaatd
nearly forgotten to ask.'

  `It turned into a pig,' Alice   hapnWhhodeeahf ,eog as if it had
come back in a natural way.

  `I thought it would,' said the  y.ahcnpoatne?ahr!ain.

  Alice waited a little, half e y pecting to see it again, but it
did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the
direction in which the  s te ch   mn a 
dechna OymunD  `I've seen
hatters before,' she said to herself s  
 mdfs te ch   mn a 
ta , ohe
much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is  s trcao
dantt be
raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in  s te ch.'  As she said
this, she looked up, and there was the  y.o !ain, sitting on a
branch of a tree.

  `  t'd you say pig, or fig s.oodeeomdfy.otslf`I said pig,' replied Alice s  
  nupa 
ta,  you wouldn't keep
appearing and vanishing so suddenly:  you make one   hapen 
'ddy.'

  `All right,' said the  y.oof nuO is time it vanished   hapen o, sw
 w
t dw'nning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin,
which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

  `Wellam oaatve often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice s  wk dQe
uon-taocalreho'am oa.is the most curious thing I ever
saw in my lifea.i

   sya  cpaim
ian  tal s h  n mdt  ohefore she came in sight of the
house of the  s te ch   mn a tf she thought it must be the right house,
because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was
thatched with fur.  It was so large a house, that she did not
like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand
bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high:  even
then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself
` sdpopose it should be raving mad after allam oa  ulpst wish I'd
gone to see the   m'ter insteada.i



                            yh T o  lg`tf
f da eI

                         A  s tp ttvlfhge ty


  There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,
and the  s te ch   mn a  nuO e   m'ter were having tea at it:  a
  tio mouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two
were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and talking
over its head.  `  hii hhaduoO   i mn l:for the   tio mouse,' thought Alice s  wfiuz cecaae;n
Ti sloa otpopose it doesn't mind.'

  The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded
together at one corner of it:  `  h o roomam    frrooma.i they cried
out when they saw Alice coming.  `There's   hFr tfh T 
t of rooma.i said
Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one
end of the table.

  `  mn nrsome wine,' the  s te ch   mn a odeeoonrneaae iad  !ing tone.

  Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it
but tea.  `I don't see any wine,' she remarked.

  `There isn't any,' said the  s te ch   mn a tslf`Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it,' said Alice
angrily.

  `It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being
invited,' said the  s te ch   mn a tslf`I didn't know it was  
t  th he  wmn lThnoodeeo
 eme n of
 oents laid for a
great many more than three.'

  ` 
tour hair wants cutting,' said the   m'ter.    .qeooheen
looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was
his first speech.

  ` 
tou should learn not to make personal remarks,' Alice said
with some severity s  
 oents very rude.'

  The   m'ter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this s  ohut all
he  slcI  t-dewh`Why is a raven like a writing-desk s.o,h 
  hht ta
hwe shall have some fun nowa.i thought Alice.  `I'm glad
they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she
added aloud.

  `  ti hhir ta nemci you think you can find out the answer to it s.oghna O e  s te ch   mn a tslf`  ty kree
 chsdepdeeo
 eme n tslf`Then you should say what you mean,' the  s te ch   mn a 
tt' on.

  `I do,' Alice hastily replied s  
  ' least--at least I mean what
I say--that's the same thing, you know.'

  `  h ot the same thing a bita.i said the   m'ter.  ` 
tou might   
ad
sdeyg,hchuhmci  
g e see what I eat 
AaKdcheta mdanm nh  wt e eat
what I see 
,snt

  ` 
tou might   
ad
rnh
t,hchu
derueasomdfs te ch   mn a
h`that  
g e
like what I get 
AaKdcheta mdanm nh  wt e get what I like 
,snt

  ` 
tou might   
ad
rnh
t,hchu
derueasomdf tio mouse, who seemed to
be talking in his sleep, `that  
g e breathe when I sleep 
AaKdltheta mdanm nh  wt e sleep when I breathe 
,snt

  `It I sHhe same thing with you,' said the   m'ter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute,
while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
writing-desks, which wasn't much.

  The   m'ter was the first to break the silence.  `What day of
the month is it s.o dchna el.p ning to Alice:  he had taken his
watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.

  Alice considered a little, and then said `The fourth.'

  `Two days wronga.i sighed the   m'ter.  `I told you butter
wouldn't suit the worksa.i he added looking angrily at the  s te ch
  mn a tslf`It was the   t Hc
 t,laleno ,' the  s te ch   mn a  taah e
 c aoolied.

  ` 
tes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the   m'ter
grumbled:  `you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.'

  The  s te ch   mn a mpk the watch and looked at it gloomily:  then
he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again:  but he
could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, `It
was the   t Hc
 t,laleno , you know.'

  Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.
`What a funny watcha.i she remarked.  `It tells the day of the
month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it isa.i

  `Why should it s.o taleno ed the   m'ter.  `  tiaof
t  th he  w
dich tell
you what year it is s.o,h 
   mr  course not,' Alice replied very readily:  `but that's
because it stays the same year for such a long time together.'

  `Which is   
ad
O e case with  s ea   f Thnoodeeomdf m'ter.

  Alice felt dreadfully pu   w  
Ed.  The   m'ter's remark seemed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly   tt!lish.
`I don't   hapen aduno stand you,' she said, as politely as she
could.

  `The   tio mouse is asleep again,' said the   m'ter, and he poured
a little hot tea upon its nose.

  The   tio mouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, `  to   course, of course s     ,eog what I was going to
remark myself.'

  `  mn nryou guessed the riddle yet s.omdf m'ter said, turning to
Alice again.

  `  h o, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `what's the answer s.o,h 
 oa  cea'nit the slightest idea,' said the   m'ter.

  `  h or I,' said the  s te ch   mn a tslfAlice sighed wearily.  `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the   m'ter, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's   . e s gnt

  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

  `  to   course you don'ta.i the   m'ter said, tossing his head
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke to Timea.i

  `  hti  ceos not,' Alice cautiously replied:  `but I know I have to
beat time when I learn music.'

  `Ahammci accounts for it,' said the   m'ter.  `  .y,tnit stand
beating.    h ow, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
almost anything you liked with the clock.     Ao  instance, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning,   
ad
Dota mrbegin lessons:
you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinklingam    talf-past one, time for dinnera.i

    hnh I only wish it was,' the  s te ch   mn a odeeomritself in a
whisper.  he

  `That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully:
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

  `  h ot at first, perhaps,' said the   m'ter:  `but you could keep
it to half-past one as long as you liked.'

  `Is that the way  
t  th he t ne!e s.o
 eme n  n
 asotslfThe   m'ter shook his head mournfully.  `  h ot Ia.i he replied.
`We   harn o elled last  s te ch--  
ad
phefore   m :went mad, you know--'
  hnd ianatng with his tea spoon at the  s te ch   mn a
h he `--it was at the
great concert given by the   t adtte s     .de ts, and I had to sing

             
,aogan  eThlegan  eThlmeee:batam`             tow I wonder what you're atam wllRoirh ni
ysa odaet, perhaps s.o,h 
 oaatve heard something like it,' said Alice.

  `It goes on, you know,' the   m'ter continued, `in this way:--

             
` deo above the world you fly,
             
oike a tea-tray in the sky.
                    Twinkle, twinkle-- 
gi

  .t a mdf tio mouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that
they had to pinch it to make it stop.

  `Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' said the   m'ter,
`when the   t adtte   ,e tooed up and bawled out,  
` te's murdering the
timeam   mr f with his headam wti

  `  msCe eadfully savagea.i e y claimed Alice.

  `And ever since that,' the   m'ter went on in a mournful tone,
`he won't do a thing I askam oa.is always si y  o'clock now.'

  A bright idea came into Alice's head.  `Is that the reason so
many tea-things are put out here s.oola  n
 asotslf` 
tes, that's it,' said the   m'ter with a sigh:  `it's always
tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.'

  `Then you keep moving round, I suppose s.oodeeo
 eme n tslf`  ty kree
 chsdepdeeomdf m'ter:  `as the things get used up.'

  `  t n t what happens when you come to the beginning again s.o
 eme n g ni'ured to ask.

  ` sdpopose we change the sub  
ahaahnomdfs te ch   mn a oneno rupted,
yawning.  `I'm getting tired of this.  I vote the young lady
tells us a story.'

  `I'm afraid I don't know one,' said Alice, rather alarmed at
the proposal.

  `Then the   tio mouse shalla.i they both cried.  `Wake up,
  tio mousea.i  And they pinched it on both sides at once.

  The   tio mouse slowly opened his eyes.  `I wasn't asleep,' he
said in a hoarse, feeble voice:  `I heard every word you fellows
were saying.'

  `Tell us a storya.i said the  s te ch   mn a tslf` 
tes, please doa.i pleaded Alice.

  `And be   hape e o n calpeederueasomdf m'ter, `or you'll be asleep
again before it's done.'

  `  tauarupon a time there were three little sisters,' the
  tio mouse began in a great hurry s  
  nuO eir names were   t,otasl`,dr'e, and Tillie s   nuO ey lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on s.oodeeo
 eme n
hwho always took a great
interest in   haIstions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the   tio mouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked s  
 mdGtd have been ill.'

  ` sc mdxwere,' said the   tio mouse s  
    dh tf
yg ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an e y traordinary ways
of living would be like, but it pu   w  
Ed her too much, so she went
on:  `  t n t why did they live at the bottom of a well s.o,h 
  tgrarsome more tea,' the  s te ch   mn a odeeomrAlice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  ` 
tou mean you can't take  
o  tc
 o,hnoodeeomdf m'ter:  `it's very
easy to take  s Hh 
Hys neaimdanmtnt

  `  h obody asked  
t  th he  w i ianton,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now s.omdf m'ter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not   hapen h ni
y, at to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
  tio mouse, and repeated her   haIstion.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well s.o,h  twa   .ormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thinga.i  Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the   m'ter and the  s te ch   mn a 
tt' ` sy et sha.i and the   tio mouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `  h o, please go ona.i Alice said very humbly s  
 oa 
dantt interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be   th h   tlneslf`  tanwhindeeda.i said the   tio mouse indignantly.    msgt ni 
hhe
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw s.oodeeo
 eme n
h  hapen h  i 
nTenet her promise.

  `Treacle,' said the   tio mouse, without considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the   m'ter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

    .H i nso ie nh dcmooke, and the   tio mouse followed him:  the
 s te ch   mn a  t i nsoonei mdf tio mouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the  s te ch   mn a tr twa    tatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than before, as the  s te ch   mn a  cp   ,eog upset
the milk-  
alt into his plate.

  Alice did not wish to offend the   tio mouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `  t n t I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from s.o,h 
   wiaqtnlaksy,eno  out of a water-well,' said the   m'ter s  
 od g e should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid s.o,h 
   maBodxwere I  h  the well,' Alice said to the   tio mouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `  to   course they were', said the   tio mouse s  
 o
-well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the   tio mouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the   tio mouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy s  
  nuO ey drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an  s e
-'

  `Why with an  s dhti said Alice.

  `Why not s.oodeeomdfs te ch   mn a tslfAlice was silent.

  The   tio mouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a do   grs  ohut, on being pinched by the   m'ter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
 s shsuch as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are  
,ouch of a muchness 
g g watd you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness s.o,h 
    gv ,h
lai
y dafn
 o ta
ai said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the   m'ter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off s  mdf tio mouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the   tio mouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go T  m : 
Hksienig' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my lifea.i

      vpg as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curiousa.i she thought.
`  t n t everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at once.'
And in she went.

    tauarmore she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `  h ow, I'll manage better this time,'
she said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key,
and unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went
to work nibbling at the mushroom   hn, e had kept a piece of it
in her pocket  he till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down
the little passage:  and T  m : h --she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool fountains.



                           yh T o  lg`tf
f da eII

                   The   t adttnis  ya  r haIt-   te ound


  A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at
it, busily painting them red.  Alice thought this a very curious
thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and   
ad
rnhola hoeta ad -to them she heard one of them say, ` 
oook out now,    ,tveam   .on't go
splashing paint over me like thata.i

  `I couldn't help it,' said    ,tve, in a sulky tone s  
  o,i nie   A
eted
my elbow.'

    tae
loe s  o,i niehd s asoad rand said, `That's right,    ,tveam 
 e
,e thwhuhmdc lheta  ie ssao sa.i

  ` 
t  th hni  tphetter not talka.i said    ,tve.  `I heard the   t adtteodrkae
 lGogerday you deserved to be beheadeda.i

  `What for s.oodeeomdkan 
l rhad spoken first.

  `That's none of  
t  th he  wohusiness, Twoa.i said  sdt nietslf` 
tes, it I sfdaA dptanimdg' said    ,tve, `and I'll tell him--it
was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'

   sdt nieh htvsbi
te daA d adhll nurcp   ,eog begun `Well, of all
the un  
ad
O ings--' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as
she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly:  the
others looked round also, and all of them bowed low.

  `Would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, `why you are
painting those roses s.o,h    
ounrand  sdt nieodeeoaimdanT d dB d s aso ' Two.  Two began in a
low voice, `Why the fact is, you see,  s e!
lmda`dt a  i-smm-have been a   
Hftp ose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake s  ,neooe   the   t adtte
deyi h oneooeriEl
tchcal
o u,  ceau ip  heads
cut off, you know.   sc hhirottwh s e!
l
ttire doing our best, afore
she comes, to--'  At this moment    ,tve, who had been an y iously
looking across the garden, called out `The   t adtteet  The   t adtteet'
and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon
their faces.  There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice
looked round, eager to see the   t adttetslf   ,trst came ten soldiers carrying clubs s  mdt:were all shaped
like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and
feet at the corners:  ne y t the ten courtiers s  mdt:were
ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the
soldiers did.  After these came the royal children s  mdt a 
tt a wnars   them, and the little dears came   
ayi ianm tao rily along hand
in hand, in couples:  they were all ornamented with hearts.    h e y t
came the guests, mostly    tonets and   t adttn
l nuret i! them Alice
recognised the White   
tehbit:  it was talking in a hurried nervous
manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without
noticing her.  Then followed the    taieau s     .de ts, carrying the
   tonet's crown on a crimson velvet cushion s   nuelhdeg of all this
grand procession, came T  m :   toa   f  Who  f .   t    dHftfh    th  `  m Tho  wt,w tslfAlice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on
her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember
ever having heard of such a rule at processions s  
  nuphesides,
what would be the use of a procession,' thought she, `if people
had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn't see it s.oA
 rshe stood still where she was, and waited.

  When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped
and looked at her, and the   t adtteodeeoott ni ahx`Who is this s.oA
 dchna peOysa    mnave of   .de ts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.

  `Idiota.i said the   t adtt?mimtanm dt   ddposi vatently s   nuelwnd a'ng to Alice, she went on, `What's your name, child s.o,h 
  oc haiga oMha ta aslod oolease your  s tf,i
e wai said Alice very
politely s  ohut she added, to herself, `Why, they're only a pack of
cards, after all.  I needn't be afraid of thema.i

  `And who are T  m :sf:s.oodeeomdf t adtt?ooointing to the three
gardeners who were lying round the rosetree s  h  i 
hyou see, as
they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs
was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether
they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her
own children.

  `  msAhcal
ooa h ni
chti said Alice, surprised at her own courage.
`It's no business of  s ea   f Wano,h  twa   m ueen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her
for a moment like a wild beast, screamed `  to  f with her headam`mr f--'

  `  h onsensea.i said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the
  t adtte
decmeTnotslfThe    tonet laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said
` ymnsider, my dear:  she is only a childa.i

  The   t adtte.p ned angrily away from him, and said to the    taieauwftteo n them overa.i

  The    taieauh'd so, very carefully, with one foot.

  `   t! upa.i said the   t adtt?onreolo ill, loud voice, and the
three gardeners instantly   
ayi i,dpo, and began bowing to the
   tonet, the   t adtt?mdc  s dbhoda ,e en, and everybody else.

  ` 
oeave off thata.i screamed the   t adttetr
   wiaft u n  ta 
'ddy.'
And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, `What   T o  dh ty dayt dttehionet here s.o,h 
  oyuhoepolease your  s tf,i
e wai said Two, in a very humble tone,
going down on one knee as he spoke, `we were trying--'

  `I seea.i said the   t adtt?
l rhad meanwhile been e y amining the
roses.  `  to  f with their headsa.i and the procession moved on,
three of the soldiers remaining behind to e y ecute the unfortunate
gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.

  ` 
tou shan't be beheadeda.i said Alice, and she put them into a
large flower-pot that stood near.  The three soldiers wandered
about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then   hapnWhh,oarched off after the others.

  `Are their heads off s.ool iD,lsa   m ueen.

  `Their heads are gone, if it please your  s tf,i
e dg' the soldiers
shouted in reply.

  `That's righta.i shouted the   t adttetr
  hhtnl dak shuhhak   ceamol'

  The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the   haIstion
was evidently meant for her.

  ` 
tesa.i shouted Alice.

  ` ymme on, thena.i roared the   t adtt? nu- eme n    AonnhO e
procession, wondering very much what would happen ne y t.

  `It's--it's a very fine daya.i said a timid voice at her side.
 sya 
dey,e
 atng by the White   
tehbit, who was peeping an y iously
into her face.

  `  hii h
depdeeo
 eme n tf `--where's the   tnl saothol'

  `  .pl et    .pl et' said the   
tehbit in a low, hurried tone.    .l, pked an y iously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised
himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and
whispered ` syaats under sentence of e y ecution.'

  `What for s.oodeeo
 eme n tslf`  t'd you say  
,a Ai a pityam wchti the   
tehbit asked.

  `  h o, I didn't,' said Alice:  `I don't think it's at all a pity.
I said  
,a Ai for sh wti

  ` sya oho y ed the   t adttnis ears--' the   
tehbit began.  Alice gave a
little scream of laughter.  `  t

hhusha.i the   
tehbit whispered in a
frightened tone.  `The   t adtte
ta ,  dde  youam   wiakTslola hoeta g  'her late, and the   t adtteodeealt gi

  `   t! to your placesa.i shouted the   t adtteonreoatoe n  s   thunder,
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up
against each other s   c
tt ni 
hthey got settled down in a minute or
two, and the game began.  Alice thought she had never seen such a
curious cro  haIt-ground in her life s  oe-dek-ho idges and
furrows s  mdc c-mygt a htadn  d,sn c
"hthe mallets live
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to
stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

  The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her
flamingo:  she succeeded in getting its body tucked away,
comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down,
but generally,   
ad
rnhola  cp
imoeMns e oa'cely straightened
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it
W  th he ,ftEgawpe!,h  o ound and look up in her face, with such a
pu   w  
Ed e y pression that she could not help bursting out laughing:
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again,
it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in the act of crawling away:  besides all this,
there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she
wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers
were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the
ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very
difficult game indeed.

  The players all played at once without waiting for turns,
  harn o elling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs s   nupnsdd ni hhol i m.ota mdf t adtte
decaua furious passion, and went
stamping about, and shouting `  to  f with his heada.i or `  to  f with
her heada.i about once in a minute.

  Alice began to feel very uneasy:  to be sure, she had not as
yet had any dispute with the   t adtt?ohut she knew that it might
happen any minute, `and then,' thought she, `what would become of
me sh  twah.acyacdI  ully fond of beheading people here s  mdytreat
wonder is, that there's any one left alivea.i

   sya 
deyhpking about for some way of escape, and wondering
whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a
curious appearance in the air:  it pu   w  
Ed her very much at
first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to
be a grin, and she said to herself `It's the  y
aoloua  hhti:  now I
shall have somebody to talk to.'

  `  ms`n a hhir
nTenet on s.oodeeomdfy.ahcechpn as there was
mouth enough for it to speak with.

  Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded.  `It's no
use speaking to it,' she thought, `till its ears have come, or at
least one of them.'  In another minute the whole head appeared,
and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the
game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her.  The
 y.oottli,li mdan  O at there was enough of it now in sight, and
no more of it appeared.

  `I don't think they play at all fairly,' Alice began, in rather
a complaining tone, `and they all   harn o el so dreadfully one can't
hear oneself speak--and they don't seem to have any rules in
particular s   ' least, if there are, nobody attends to them--and
you've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive s  w  or instance, there's the arch I've got to go through ne y t
walking about at the other end of the ground--and I should have
cro  haIted the   t adttnis hedgehog   
ad
vt
whonly it ran away when it
saw mine cominga.i

  `  msCt hhirhta  n mdf t adtteol' said the  y.oonrehd
c 'oe n tslf`  h ot at all,' said Alice:  `she's so e y tremely--'      vpg then
she noticed that the   t adtte
dey ehi:behind her, listening:  so
she went on, `--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while
finishing the game.'

  The   t adtteolia t,cnpooassed on.

  `Who A  
Hy daHalking to s.oodeeomdf  tonet, going up to Alice, and
looking at the  y.ae;ddp
taoRe eat curiosity.

  `It's a friend of mine--a  y
aoloua  hhti,' said Alice:  `allow me
to introduce it.'

  `I don't like the look of it at all,' said the    tonet:
`however, it may kiss my hand if it likes.'

  `I'd rather not,' the  y.oo emarked.

  `  tiantt be impertinent,' said the    tonet, `and don't look at me
like thata.i    .ytot behind Alice as he spoke.

  `A cat may look at a king,' said Alice.  `I've read that in
some book, but I don't remember where.'

  `Well, it must be removed,' said the    tonet very decidedly, and
he called the   t adtt?
l rwas passing at the moment, ` s ryavkg  I
wish you would have this cat removeda.i

  The   t adtte cp iuxone way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `  to  f with his heada.i she said, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the e y ecutioner myself,' said the    tonet eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the   t adttnis voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.   sya  cp ut a ue U n hrdt  ott'ence three
of the players to be e y ecuted for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.   sc ola 
tt' in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an e y cellent opportunity for cro  haIting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

    t rysa .ota ola  cphon-smmdy  lamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'   sc ola .ba  nhperSuhgvvt   dt   n  t
hthat it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the  y
aoloua  hhti, she was surprised to
find   hapen  ehde ge crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the e y ecutioner, the    tonet, and the   t adtt?
l -were all talking at once, while all the rest were   hapen ota tt',
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the   haIstion, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out e y actly what they said.

  The e y ecutioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at   . e sHime of life.

  The    tonet's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The   t adttnis argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody e y ecuted, all round.
  hndg was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and an y ious.  he

  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
  tnl saothtf you'd better ask   m : 
cehout it.'

  ` syaats in prison,' the   t adtteodeeomrthe e y ecutioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the e y ecutioner went off like an arrow.

   The  y.ae;ddpohegan fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the   tnl saot
loercpaae'rely
disappeared s  od mdf  tonet and the e y ecutioner ran wildly up and down
looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                            yh T o  lg`tf
d e    r ,h                     twa  oys e o tteo tle's  slio y


  ` 
tou can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thinga.i said the   tnl saot
l nhola .ba  nhrdt   n  t  u h ahaatonately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

  Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I' s cf.uchess,' she said to herself,   hn'monreoa' hh, opeful tone though  he, `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
A 
o 
o.   scad rdoes very well without-- s trt dcaae;uwdrthooepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you
know--'

   sya  cp   ceoen h  i 
iT'emdf tnl saothohy this time, and was a
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
` 
tou're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  I can't tell you   
ad
vt
y, at the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `  hti  ceos it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

  `Tut, tut, childa.i said the   tnl saothtr
   Tdno ything's got a
moral, if only you can find it.'  And she s  haIe   gso dt ot,h  ad -closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the   tnl saoth
def hs : 
yg ugly s   nuptAondly, because she was
e y actly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.    msgt ni 
hshe did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.

  `'Tis so,' said the   tnl saothtf `and the moral of that is-- 
`m,hw'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go roundam wti

  ` sc taohody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own businessa.i

  `Ah, wellam oam ta nnh tal s mdcheta mdanT noodeeomdf tnl saot
lwatgging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of T  T ot,ts-- 
,a.  n hon a  s   the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves. 
gi

  `  msx ond she is of finding morals in thingsa.i Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the   tnl saothodeeo u .t   eooause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.   sy u, oa . hhmdlty c it osit' s.o,h 
    t  tHoetht bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
an y ious to have the e y periment tried.

  `  hii hh. adwai said the   tnl saothtf `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is-- 
`maaya`s   a feather flock
together. 
gi

  `  tauxmustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  `  
eetht, as usual,' said the   tnl saothtf `what a clear way you
have of putting thingsa.i

  `It's a mineral, I T  . e  h    t
ai said Alice.

  `  to   course it is,' said the   tnl saot
l
l rseemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said s  
 mdt aats a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is-- 
,a
a  t i a mdt a o;s   mine, the
less there is of yours. 
gi

  `  t

hI knowa.i e y claimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I   hapen  !ree with you,' said the   tnl saothof
  nuO e moral of
that is-- 
`may, at you would seem to be 
g g ,t  oe   you'd like it put
more simply-- 
` kt ni  osv.anryourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise. 
gi

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't   hapen h  s
hsAao,M hirodrcaotnt

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the   tnl saothg aoolied, in a pleased tone.

  `  htkryoinit trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `  t

hdon't talk about troublea.i said the   tnl saothtr
 oa  t u n hhir,poresent of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of presenta.i thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like thata.i    t n t she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again s.omdf tnl saoth n
 asahlgaofnessao  dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `    vpg about as much right,' said the   tnl saot
l
  nhooigs have to fly s  ,neomdHo
-'

    t n t here, to Alice's great surprise, the   tnl saot.aA 'oe n h'ed
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the   t adtteonb o ont of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your  s tf,i
e dg' the   tnl saothohegan in a low, weak
voice.

  `  h ow, I give you fair warning,' shouted the   t adtt?ogamping on
the ground as she spoke s  
 aoesao  you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no timeam  tgraryour choicea.i

  The   tnl saothmpk her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  ` 
oet's go on with the game,' the   t adtteodeeomrAlice s   nu- eme n w,Mop much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the cro  haIt-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the   t adttnis absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the   t adtte tao ely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the   t adtteanoa'  ht`m s  f
  harn o elling with the other players, and shouting `  to  f with his
heada.i or `  to  f with her heada.i  Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, e y cept the
   tonet, the   t adtt? nu- eme n
hwere in custody and under sentence of
e y ecution.

  Then the   t adtteht`m s  f,   hapen  iQs   breath, and said to
Alice, `  mn nryou seen the  s tha  rtteo tle yet s.o,h 
    fsdepdeeo
 eme n tr
 oa hiantt even know what a  s tha  rtteo tle is.'

  `It's the thing  s tha  rtteo tle  scad ris made from,' said the   t adttetslf`I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

  ` ymme on, then,' said the   t adtt?
  nurdchc-h.,hy dafda,hdawio y,'

  As they walked off together, Alice heard the    tonet say in a low
voice, to the company generally, ` 
tou are all pardoned.'  ` ymme,
T  T ottep`a good thinga.i she said to herself, for she had felt   hapen gvAeopy at the number of e y ecutions the   t adtte cp i hno ed.

  They very soon came upon a    te yphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.    hndf `you don't know what a    te yphon is, look at the picture.  he
`  hn slhdf
rysoneta.i said the   t adtt?
  nuOe arthis young lady to
see the  s tha  rtteo tle, and to hear his history.  I must go back and
see after some e y ecutions I have ordered' s   nupla 
d- aso s  f,
leaving Alice alone with the    te yphon.  Alice did not   hapen hta  n wsa hd s o s   the creature, but on the whole she thought it would
be   hapen  nhodr e to stay with it as to go after that savage
  t adttetf so she waited.

  The    te yphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the
  t adtte.a , ola 
dekalrs   sight:  then it chuckled.  `What funa.i
said the    te yphon, half to itself, half to Alice.

  `What I sHhe fun s.oodeeo
 eme n tslf`Why,  sf t  twai said the    te yphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never e y ecutes nobody, you know.   ymme ona.i

  `  tt ni hmhody says  
w i ta  ieet 
`dt a
ai thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
nevera.i

  They had not gone far before they saw the  s tha  rtteo tle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.   sya ooitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow s.oola ,S nhO e    te yphon, and the    te yphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you know.   ymme ona.i

   sc mdxwent up to the  s tha  rtteo tle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the    te yphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

   sc mdxsat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can   tfhs : h  finish, if he
doesn't begin.'    t n t she waited patiently.

  `  tauasdepdeeomdfs tha  rtteo tle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional e y clamation of `  m  , a  uo ha.i from the    te yphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the  s tha  rtteo tle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there  s fdd
 t,la ,oore to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  `When we were little,' the  s tha  rtteo tle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  The master was an old Turtle--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one s.o
 eme n  n
 asotslf`We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the  s tha  slen rtle angrily:  `really you are very dulla.i

  ` 
tou ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
  haIstion,' added the    te yphon s   nuO en they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the    te yphon said to the  s tha  rtteo tle, `  tuounron, old fellowam`.on't be all day about ita.i and he went on in these words:

  ` 
tes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn'ta.i interrupted Alice.

  ` 
tou did,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle.

  `  ms
ohhip  tonguea.i added the    te yphon, before Alice could speak
again.  The  s tha  rtteo tle went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'  hs :been to a day-school, too,' said Alice s  
 hhiranahnntt be
so proud as all that.'

  `With e y tras s.o n
 asomdfs tha  rtteo tle a little an y iously.

  ` 
tes,' said Alice, `we learned    ,ctuofnurtadme sneslf`And washing s.oodeeomdfs tha  rtteo tle.

  ` yat mnan xnota.i said Alice indignantly.

  `Ahammdtehhip s wasn't a really good school,' said the  s tha  slen rtle in a tone of great relief.  `  h ow at   th he  wo`they had at the
end of the bill,  
` 
o ench, music, A  h   trtdhoo` . e  h    te
-e y tra. 
gi

  ` 
tou couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice s  
 htad'ng at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the  s tha  rtteo tle with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'

  `What was that s.oonr ceouah- eme n tslf`  
',onet and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the  s tha  slen rtle replied s  
  nuO en the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition,   t'straction,   h!lification, and   tno ision.'

  `I never heard of  
` dseme  ication, 
gi Alice ventured to say.  `What is it s.o,h  twa    .y t bon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  `Whatam    kt ni  , eard of uglifyinga.i it e y claimed.  ` 
tou know what to beautify is,
I suppose s.o,h 
   wnowai said Alice doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anything--prettier.'

  `Well, then,' the    te yphon went on, `if you don't know what to
uglify is, you A  
Hkdmsi sToietnt

  Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more   haIstions about
it, so she turned to the  s tha  rtteo tle, and said `What else had you
to learn s.o,h 
  tds

lmdt a 
defs rt
no y,' the  s tha  rtteo tle replied, counting
off the sub  
ahaa`ie dax lappers, `-- s rt
no y, ancient and modern,
with  sddt
u n by:  then   tu "mnet--the   tu "mnet-master was an old
conger-eel, that used to come once a week:    m :taught us
  tu "mnet,  slua:sonet, and    Aene'ng in  ymils.'

  `What was T  T ot, ta  n ol' said Alice.

  `Well, I can't show it you myself,' the  s tha  rtteo tle said:  `I'm
too stiff.  And the    te yphon never learnt it.'

  `  munntt time,' said the    te yphon:  `I went to the  yohnmta a,ht n
no , though.    .y,;ne s
ohakeh,   m :was.'

  `I never went to him,' the  s tha  rtteo tle said with a sigh:  `he
taught  
oaughing and    te ief, they used to say.'

  ` sc  dyatd, so he did,' said the    te yphon, sighing in his turn s  ,neoohoth creatures hid their faces in their paws.

  `And how many hours a day did you do lessons s.oodeeo
 eme n
hin a
hurry to change the sub  
ahaotslf`Ten hours the first day,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle: `nine the
ne y t, and so on.'

  `What a curious plana.i e y claimed Alice.

  `That's the reason they're called lessons,' the    te yphon
remarked:  `because they lessen from day to day.'

  This was   hapen  ean
ca n emrAlice, and she thought it over a
little before she made her ne y t remark.  `Then the eleventh day
must have been a holiday s.o,h 
   mr  course it was,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle.

  `And how did you manage on the twelfth s.o
 eme n 
tt' on eagerly.

  `That's enough about lessons,' the    te yphon interrupted in a
very decided tone:  `tell her something about the games now.'



                             yh T o  lg`tf
f  o  ,h                      twa   ,dohster   t acv oe
Wh,h  twa  oys e o tteo tle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper
across his eyes.    .yhpked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for
a minute or two sobs choked his voice.  ` scga  nhoe   he had a bone
in his throat,' said the    te yphon:  and it set to work shaking him
and punching him in the back.  At last the  s tha  rtteo tle recovered
his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on
again:--

  ` 
tou may not have lived much under the sea--'   hnh I haven't,' said Alice  he--
`and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'
  hnha ta arbegan to say `I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily,
and said `  h o, never'  he `--so you can have no idea what a delightful
thing a  
oobster   t acv oe
:isa.i

  `  h o, indeed,' said Alice.  `What sort of a dance is it s.o,h 
  tll wai said the    te yphon, `you first form into a line along the sea-shore--'

  `Two linesa.i cried the  s tha  rtteo tle.  ` sddO
hturtles, salmon, and so on s  wsaael
laabhivadn ha tde ed all the   
ah,hm
fish out of the way--'

  `T  T ot,.tnt  u,hhmu nochOrtime,' interrupted the    te yphon.

  `--you advance twice--'

  `  tdrs 
taofehdohster as a partnera.i cried the    te yphon.

  `  to   course,' the  s tha  rtteo tle said:  `advance twice, set to
partners--'

  `--change lobsters, and retire in same order,' continued the
   te yphon.

  `Then, you know,' the  s tha  rtteo tle went on, `you throw the--'

  `The lobstersa.i shouted the    te yphon, with a bound into the air.

  `--as far out to sea as you can--'

  ` slgot  u .t  mdlIt' screamed the    te yphon.

  `Turn a somersault in the seaa.i cried the  s tha  rtteo tle,
capering wildly about.

  ` y
 n!e lobsters againa.i yelled the    te yphon at the top of its voice.

  `  t tre omrland again, and that's all the first figure,' said the
 s tha  rtteo tle, suddenly dropping his voice s   nuO e two creatures,
who had been   
ayi ianm n calbta  n  t uO ings all this time, sat
down again very sadly and   hapnWh
l nubd s aso ' Alice.

  `It must be a very pretty dance,' said Alice timidly.

  `Would you like to see a little of it s.oodeeomdfs tha  rtteo tle.

  `  hii hh tal s oneai,sai said Alice.

  ` ymme, let's try the first figurea.i said the  s tha  rtteo tle to the
   te yphon.  `We can do without lobsters, you know.  Which shall
sing s.o,h 
   m,hfwrmfddmnet,' said the    te yphon.  `I've forgotten the words.'

   sc mdxbegan solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now
and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and
waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the  s tha  rtteo tle
sang this, very slowly and sadly:--


` 
,a ee
hhhir
d- o ehtaaa ty  aster sh wchna re
loe'ng to a snail.
 
,a
ao e's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my
 tail.
 sdtqwcdsno ly the lobsters and the turtles all advanceam,a
ahh n a 
dee'ng on the shingle--will you come and   
 iauthe
dance sh,htdtll you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you   
 iauthe
dance sh,a ee
hhhi-hwon't you, will you, won't you, won't you   
 iauthe
dance sh,h`wRoirhoneo eally have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to
                                                      seaam wlft n t the snail replied  
,amo far, too faram wknp
ieau ehd s o`                                                      n
 onuai g ,hoAeeo dys nu nhO e whiting kindly, but he would not   
 iauthe
   dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not   
 iaS       mdyonuaD
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not   
 iaS       mdyonuaD

` 
,a Ai matters it how far we go sh wVec
 i- y  riend replied.
 
,a
ao e is another shore, you know, upon the other side.
The further off from   tt!land the nearer is to    ,knrno
-
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and   
 iauthe dance.

    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you   
 iauthe
         dance sh`   tdtll you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you   
 iauthe
         dance sh wti



  `Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' said
Alice, feeling very glad that it was over at last:  `and I do so
like that curious song about the whitinga.i

  `  t

has to the whiting,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle, `they--you've
seen them, of course s.o,h 
   wnowai said Alice, `I've often seen them at dinn--' she
checked herself hastily.

  `I don't know where   t'nn may be,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle, `but
if you've seen them so often, of course you know what they're
like.'

  `I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully.  `They have their
tails in their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.'

  ` 
tou're wrong about the crumbs,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle:
`crumbs would all wash off in the sea.    t n t they   T o  dh tysaou mna thgautheir mouths s   nuO e reason is--' here the  s tha  rtteo tle
yawned and shut his eyes.--`Tell her about the reason and all
that,' he said to the    te yphon.

  `The reason is,' said the    te yphon, `that they W  th he ,ft-i 
taoyghe lobsters to the dance.   sc mdxgot thrown out to sea.   sc wsahh cpmrfall a long way.   sc mdxgot their tails fast in
their mouths.   sc mdxcouldn't get them out again.  That's all.'

  `Thank you,' said Alice, `it's very interesting.  I never knew
so much about a whiting before.'

  `I can tell you more than that, if you like,' said the
   te yphon.  `  ti hhirh ni
y, y it's called a whiting s.o,h 
 oa anoa'  mcaltht about it,' said Alice.  `Why s.o,h 
 oa t` trmHc
  t`m :  t Hh t
ed
 
 r f .  sf t  th tc
 tnt the    te yphon replied very
solemnly.

  Alice was thoroughly pu   w  
Ed.  `  tiaoysa ohoots and shoesa.i she
repeated in a wondering tone.

  `Why, what are  
t  th he  wol ithhian 
taokhti said the    te yphon.  `I
mean, what makes them so shiny s.o,h 
 eme n hd s asohi
te ' them, and considered a little before she
gave her answer.  `They're done with blacking, I believe.'

  `  t t s;nupl ithaduno  the sea,' the    te yphon went on in a deep
voice, `are done with a whiting.    h ow you know.'

  `And what are they made of s.o
 eme n  n
 asoonreminkh  
ua '
curiosity.

  ` schtth nuIels, of course,' the    te yphon replied rather
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'

  `If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, `I'd have said to the porpoise,  
` meep
back, please:  we don't want  
t  th he
taokpdg 
gi

  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the  s tha  rtteo tle
said:  `no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it really s.oodeeo
 eme n onreminkh  
ua ' surprise.

  `  to   course not,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle:  `why, if a fish came
to  s Hwhand told me he was going a   
 ip ney, I should say  
,a ees w, at porpoise sh wti

  `  tiantt you mean  
g ip pose 
Ahti said Alice.

  `I mean what I say,' the  s tha  rtteo tle replied in an offended
tone.  And the    te yphon added ` ymme, let's hear some of  
t  th he  w,eadnaend aolneslf`I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `  ty c shnauall that,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle.

  `  h o, noam  twa  uuni'ures first,' said the    te yphon in an
impatient tone:  `e y planations take such a dreadful time.'

   sc 
 eme n ohegan telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White   
tehbit.   sya 
deklmeee:nervous about
it   
ad
r' first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so   hs : 
yg wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.    .t  htawnano s were perfectly
  hapnm.a , ola 
immrthe part about her repeating ` 
t  th he
 r w :  th
o  tel` 

 seft  tf
yea e 
o 
oIA s sai to the  y.ai ooillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the  s tha  rtteo tle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the    te yphon.

  `It all came differenta.i the  s tha  rtteo tle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'    .yhpked at the    te yphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  ` slinpad rand repeat  
giTI sft`m :  hs mea hhHf th  `T  m : sf,fhe  : .ho  w ., 
gi said
the    te yphon.

  `  msKdy ua 'ures order one about, and make one repeat
lessonsa.i thought Alice s  
 oa  toetht as well be at school at once.'
  msgt ni 
hshe got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the  
oobster   t acv oe
Thls ' she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very   haIer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the  
oobster s  oa  dde d him declare,
     
`wiafceauohaked me too brown, I must sugar my hair. 
,h   
 ;ehnl e o
taokaaAGhta "hso he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

                  r, 'er editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the  sy n h el`    maEl
laaO e tide rises and sharks are around,
      .aA 'oe n  cekl'mid and tremulous sound.    bw
  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the    te yphon.

  `Well, I never heard it before,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle s  
 ohut it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Alice said nothing s  ola  cpodi down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would   tfhs : 
y n i iteonreaiiural way
again.

  `I should like to have it e y plained,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle.

  ` sya honnit e y plain it,' said the    te yphon hastily.  `   tt  ie
taoyghe ne y t verse.'

  `  t n t about his toes s.omdfs tha  rtteo tle persisted.  `  ms`hhHh he ,ftsla .p n them out with his nose, you know s.o,h 
 oa.is the first position in dancing.' Alice said s  ohut was
dreadfully pu   w  
Ed by the whole thing, and longed to change the
sub  
ahaotslf`   tt  ie
taoHhe ne y t verse,' the    te yphon repeated impatiently:
`it begins  
g e passed by his garden. 
gi

  Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would
all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--

    `I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
      msKdf towh nuO e   hgniher were sharing a pie--'

            r, 'er editions continued as follows
    The   hgniher took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
    While the   towh cpmdyatsh as its share of the treat.
    When the pie was all finished, the   tow
l nh eohoon,
    Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
    While the   hgniher received knife and fork with a growl,
    And concluded the ban  haIt--    bw
  `What I sHhe use of repeating all that stuff,' the  s tha  rtteo tle
interrupted, `if you don't e y plain it as you go on sh oa.is by far
the most confusing thing I ever hearda.i

  ` 
tes, I think you'd better leave off,' said the    te yphon:  and
Alice was only too glad to do so.

  ` sy u, 
tyuhh nessao  figure of the  
oobster   t acv oe
:s.omdlf te yphon went on.  `  ta  
dal
ohhirhta  n mdfs tha  rtteo tle to sing you
a song s.o,h 
   m,hcdhi!, please, if the  s tha  rtteo tle would be so kind,'
Alice replied, so eagerly that the    te yphon said, in a rather
offended tone, `  mt et    h o accounting for tastesam  o,tng her
 
,aap tle  scad sl wyga , hhi-hold fellow s.o,h  twa  oys e o tteo tle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes
choked with sobs, to sing this:--


    `  t unDa  alh oAad slod o ich and green,
    Waiting in a hot tureenam`   tlc h  i  otboV'nties would not stoop sh`   oAad rof the evening, beautiful  scad It
     scad rof the evening, beautiful  scad It
          t unp
-ootiful  sc i g ,dooam`        madn --ootiful  sc i g ,dooam`   oA i g ,doo of the e--e--evening,
          t unDa  al
loheautiful  scad It

    `  t unDa  alh oAad It  Who cares for fish,
       ttga
hor any other dish sh`   tlc 
dal
oaim
've all else for two
      htinu
,t mfiuxof beautiful  scad rsh`     l'nu
,t mfiuxof beautiful  scad rsh`        madn --ootiful  sc i g ,dooam`        madn --ootiful  sc i g ,dooam`   oA i g ,doo of the e--e--evening,
          t unDa  al
loheauti--   ` he ,fsfmfdfltg'

  ` y
 i adh !aina.i cried the    te yphon, and the  s tha  rtteo tle had
  
ad
phegun to repeat it, when a cry of `The trial's beginninga.i
was heard in the distance.

  ` ymme ona.i cried the    te yphon, and, taking Alice by the hand,
it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.

  `What trial is it s.o
 eme n ooanted as she ran s  ohut the    te yphon
only answered ` ymme ona.i and ran the faster, while more and more
faintly came, carried on the bree   grthat followed them, the
melancholy words:--

    ` sc i g ,doo of the e--e--evening,
          t unDa  al
loheautiful  scad It'



                            yh T o  lg`tf
f  o oa ,h                      tlc  o,os:the Tarts sh,h` twa    ming and   t adtte s     .de ts were seated on their throne when
they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts
of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards:
the    taieau
dec
invanmohefore them, in chains, with a soldier on
each side to guard him s   nuvun  mdf  tonet was the White   
tehbit,
with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the
other.  In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large
dish of tarts upon it:  they looked so good, that it made Alice
  hapen  dvsuhhmrlook at them--`I wish they'd get the trial done,'
she thought, `and hand round the refreshmentsa.i    t n t there seemed
to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about
her, to pass away the time.

  Alice had never been in a court of   
ad
'ce before, but she had
read about them in books, and she was   hapen ooleased to find that
she knew the name of nearly everything there.  `That's the
  
ala.wai she said to herself, `because of his great wig.'

  The   
ala.whby the way, was the    tonet s   nurnh dy,t a  daxu sge,t ni  mdygaT f dehpk at the frontispiece if you want to see how he
did it,  he he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly
not becoming.

  `And that's the   
ad hm
bo y ,' thought Alice, `and those twelve
creatures,'   hn, e was obliged to say `creatures,' you see, because
some of them were animals, and some were birds,  he `I suppose they
are the   
ad  i olner oCrsaid this last word two or three times over
to herself, being rather proud of it:  for she thought, and
rightly too, that very few little girls of her age knew the
meaning of it at all.    msgt ni 
h`  
ad hm
men' would have done   
ad
sdeyg,hlS` twa TT t nr  
ad  i oygt a  u, 
t oe'ng very busily on slates.
`What are they doing s.o 
 eme n 
lo! it ahOysa    .y t bon.  `They
can't have anything to put down yet, before the trial's begun.'

  `They're putting down their names,' the    te yphon whispered in
reply, `for fear they should forget them before the end of the
trial.'

  ` slnd ia O ingsa.i Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but
she stopped hastily, for the White   
tehbit cried out, ` sda ttuarin
the courta.i and the    tonet put on his spectacles and looked
an y iously round, to make out who was talking.

  Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their
shoulders, that all the   
ad  i oygt a 
t oe'ng down `stupid thingsa.i
on their slates, and she could even make out that one of them
didn't know how to spell `stupid,' and that he had to ask his
neighbour to tell him.  `A nice muddle their slates'll be in
before the trial's overa.i thought Alice.

    tankh  mdf 
ad  i oqeo eooencil that s  haIaked.  This of course,
Alice could not stand, and she went round the court and got
behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it
away.   sya h'd it so   hape e a xthat the poor little   
ad  i     d't was
  t ee

lmdf
oi   wn hr dy ial
oaim t u n  iQ' all what had become of
it s  od
hafter hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write
with one finger for the rest of the day s   nuO is was of very
little use, as it left no mark on the slate.

  `  .t  u,shread the accusationa.i said the    tonet.

    taemdaKdHldaar  
tehbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and
then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:--

    `The   t adtte s     .de ts, she made some tarts,
          All on a summer day:
      The    taieau s     .de ts, he stole those tarts,
          And took them   hapen  Suhet'

  ` ymnsider your verdict,' the    tonet said to the   
ad hhtslf`  h ot yet, not yeta.i the   
tehbit hastily interrupted.  `There's
a great deal to come before thata.i

  ` y. , mdy  irst witness,' said the    tonet s   nuO e White   
tehbit
blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, `   ,trst
witnessa.i

  The first witness was the   m'ter.    .y iga on-taofe.drnd rin
one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.  `I beg
pardon, your  s tf,i
e wai he began, `for bringing these in:  but I
hadn't   hapen h on'shed my tea when I was sent for.'

  ` 
tou ought to have finished,' said the    tonet.  `When did you
begin s.o,h  twa    tatter looked at the  s te ch   mn a
hwho had followed him into
the court, arm-in-arm with the   tio mouse.  `   Aad .tt'h of  s te ch, I
think it was,' he said.

  `   ,tfteenth,' said the  s te ch   mn a tslf` sdohh.tt'h,' added the   tio mouse.

  `Write that down,' the    tonet said to the   
ad h
l nuO e   
ad hhgdsno ly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then
added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.

  `Take off your hat,' the    tonet said to the   m'ter.

  `It isn't mine,' said the   m'ter.

  ` slihtteet' the    tonet e y claimed, turning to the   
ad h
l
l -instantly made a memorandum of the fact.

  `I keep them to sell,' the   m'ter added as an e y planation s  wk e've none of my own.  I'm a hatter.'

    .t a mdf t adtteoout on her spectacles, and began staring at the
  m'ter, who turned pale and fidgeted.

  `   teunryour evidence,' said the    tonet s  
  nubiantt be nervous, or
I'll have you e y ecuted on the spot.'

  This did not seem to encourage the witness at all:  he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the
  t adtt? nupnrdaxiae  usion he bit a large piece out of his
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

      vpg at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which
pu   w  
Ed her a good deal until she made out what it was:  she was
beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she
would get up and leave the court s  ohut on second thoughts she
decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for
her.

  `I wish you wouldn't s  haIe   grso.' said the   tio mouse, who was
sitting ne y t to her.  `I can hardly breathe.'

  `I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly:  `I'm growing.'

  ` 
tou've no right to grow here,' said the   tio mouse.

  `  tiantt talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly:  `you know
you're growing too.'

  ` 
tes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said the   tio mouse:
`not in that ridiculous fashion.'  And he got up very sulkily
and crossed over to the other side of the court.

  All this time the   t adtte cpanoa'  ht`m s  f staring at the
  m'ter, and,   
ad
rnhmdf tio mouse crossed the court, she said to
one of the officers of the court, `  t e ing me the list of the
singers in the last concerta.i on which the wretched   m'ter
trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

  `   teunryour evidence,' the    tonet repeated angrily, `or I'll have
you e y ecuted, whether you're nervous or not.'

  `I'm a poor man, your  s tf,i
e wai the   m'ter began, in a
trembling voice, `--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week
or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and
the twinkling of the tea--'

  `The twinkling of the what s.oodeeomdf  tonet.

  `It began with the tea,' the   m'ter replied.

  `  to   course twinkling begins with a Ta.i said the    tonet sharply.
`  ti hhirmu n  ta h  i   ehnduarsh    Tkaig'

  `I'm a poor man,' the   m'ter went on, `and most things
twinkled after that--only the  s te ch   mn a odeealt gi

  `I didn'ta.i the  s te ch   mn a oneno rupted in a great hurry.

  ` 
tou dida.i said the   m'ter.

  `I deny ita.i said the  s te ch   mn a tslf`  .yainaihoeedepdeeomdf  tonet:  `leave out that part.'

  `Well, at any rate, the   tio mouse said--' the   m'ter went on,
looking an y iously round to see if he would deny it too:  but the
  tio mouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.

  `After that,' continued the   m'ter, `I cut some more bread-
and-butter--'

  `  t n t what did the   tio mouse say s.o inkh  mdf 
ad hh n
 asotslf`That I can't remember,' said the   m'ter.

  ` 
tou  s fdd
 t,clili dt 
ai remarked the    tonet, `or I'll have you
e y ecuted.'

  The miserable   m'ter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter,
and went down on one knee.  `I'm a poor man, your  s tf,i
e wai he
began.

  ` 
tou're a very poor speaker,' said the    tonet.

    .t a  inkh  mdytuinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately
suppressed by the officers of the court.    hnhaKci is rather a
hard word, I will   
ad
I y plain to you how it was done.  They had
a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings:
into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat
upon it.  he

  `I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Alice.  `I've so often
read in the newspapers, at the end of trials,  
,a
ao e was some
attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the
officers of the court, 
`nupa anoa'  aduno stood what it meant
till now.'

  `If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,'
continued the    tonet.

  `I can't go no lower,' said the   m'ter:  `I'm on the floor, as
it is.'

  `Then you may  sd eT down,' the    tonet replied.

    .t a mdkmdt  
ndanvlt iamhodtt ahel nu-dec. ppressed.

  ` ymme, that finished the guinea-pigsa.i thought Alice.  `  h ow we
shall get on better.'

  `I'd rather finish my tea,' said the   m'ter, with an an y ious
look at the   t adtt?
l rwas reading the list of singers.

  ` 
tou may go,' said the    tonet, and the   m'ter hurriedly left the
court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.

  `--and   
ad
Oe arhis head off outside,' the   t adtte ueasomrone
of the officers:  but the   m'ter was out of sight before the
officer could get to the door.

  ` y. , mdcny y-taanimdg' said the    tonet.

  The ne y t witness was the   tnl saot.axi s otr oCrcarried the
pepper-bo y  in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before
she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began
snee   gtng all at once.

  `   teunryour evidence,' said the    tonet.

  ` sy nnit,' said the cook.

  The    tonet looked an y iously at the White   
tehbit, who said in a
low voice, ` 
tour  s tf,i
e Had
bakotm
e y amine T  . e sRoennothtnt

  `Well, if I must, I must,' the    tonet said, with a melancholy
air, and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till
his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, `What
are tarts made of s.o,h 
    l' i it 
hmostly,' said the cook.

  `Treacle,' said a sleepy voice behind her.

  ` ymllar that   tio mouse,' the   t adtteolo ieked out.  `  t uddpmci
  tio mouseam  tteo n that   tio mouse out of courtam  o,eoopress himam    lene s , imam   mr f with his whiskersa.i

     Ao  some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the
  tio mouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down
again, the cook had disappeared.

  `  h ever minda.i said the    tonet, with an air of great relief.
` y. , mdcny y-taanimlner
 neo dkIasoonrneaduno tone to the
  t adtt?
    gv ,h
l thhhn n 
h 
t  th he tad
bakotm
e y amine the ne y t witness.
It   hapen  t u noHhhh  i a ddp uoddg'

  Alice watched the White   
tehbit as he fumbled over the list,
feeling very curious to see what the ne y t witness would be like,
`--for they haven't got much evidence  
t  tlesai she said to herself.
Imagine her surprise, when the White   
tehbit read out, at the top
of his shrill little voice, the name `Alicea.i



                            yh T o  lg`tf
f  o oaoa ,h                       
 eme nats   tt ntdence


  `  .t a et' cried Alice,   hapen h  i 
nTenet in the flurry of the
moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she
  
ayi i,dpo in such a hurry that she tipped over the   
ad hm
bo y  with
the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the   
ad hhtaariemrthe heads
of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding
her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset
the week before.

  `  t

hI   t Hf tl dad  ooardona.i she e y claimed in a tone of great
dismay, and began picking them up again as   hape e a xas she could,
for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and
she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once
and put back into the   
ad hm
bo y , or they would die.

  `The trial cannot proceed,' said the    tonet in a very grave
voice, `until all the   
ad hhtaarn a ohack in their proper places--
A 
o 
o,' he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as
he said do.

  Alice looked at the   
ad hm
bo y , and saw that, in her haste, she
had put the  
oi   wn hpnrddphi
tSn h"hand the poor little thing
was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, being   hapen aden lW
i  t i nD   sya od ie
imoeriQ!ain, and put it right s  
 aimmci
it signifies much,' she said to herself s  
 oa ol ib,lsone ooeswdal
oohe   t    dea t`tkeHal s ad:in the trial one way up as the other.'

  As soon as the   
ad hh cp ehtaaa tc ahoi ni ahb o om the shock of
being upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and
handed back to them, they set to work very diligently to write
out a history of the accident, all e y cept the  
oi   wn hel
l rseemed
too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open,
ga   gtng up into the roof of the court.

  `What do you know about this business s.omdf  tonet said to
Alice.

  `  h othing,' said Alice.

  `  h othing W  T ot`tfhs : 
dhti persisted the    tonet.

  `  h othing whatever,' said Alice.

  `That's very important,' the    tonet said, turning to the   
ad hhtsle,s ygt a    ,eog beginning to write this down on their slates, when
the White   
tehbit interrupted:  `  he  kotooortant, your  s tf,i
e Ha nn
l,` hoip se,' he said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and
making faces at him as he spoke.

  `  he  kotooortant, of course, I meant,' the    tonet hastily said, and
went on to himself in an undertone, `important--unimportant--
unimportant--important--' as if he were trying which word
sounded best.

   sc ta  s   the   
ad hh
t  sn oebi
te
 osi prtant,' and some
`unimportant.'  Alice could see this, as she was near enough to
look over their slates s  
 ohut it doesn't matter a bit,' she
thought to herself.

  At this moment the    tonet, who had been for some time busily
writing in his note-book, cackled out ` sda ttuaIt' and read out
from his book, `  
n le    Ao ty-two.  A 
o 
o   h`tf
d
  mffo` s Hh 
HH`T o  f
 rocdjr tlf. e   tft T  th 
o  tw r dh tH`m : yh th he  wtwneslf  tt ni hmhody looked at Alice.

  `I' s desre toe:high,' said Alice.

  ` 
tou are,' said the    tonet.

  `  h early two miles high,' added the   t adttetslf`Well, I shan't go, at any rate,' said Alice:  `besides,
that's not a regular rule:  you invented it   
ad
vt
lneslf`It's the oldest rule in the book,' said the    tonet.

  `Then it ought to be   h umber   tanwai said Alice.

  The    tonet turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily.
` ymnsider your verdict,' he said to the   
ad h
lonrehd
whtrembling
voice.

  `There's more evidence to come yet, please your  s tf,i
e wai said
the White   
tehbit,   
ayi ianmad rin a great hurry s  
 mdaA vdao  has
  
ad
pheen picked up.'

  `What's in it s.oodeeomdf t adttetslf`I haven't opened it yet,' said the White   
tehbit, `but it seems
to be a letter, written by the prisoner to--to somebody.'

  `It must have been that,' said the    tonet, `unless it was
written to nobody, which isn't usual, you know.'

  `Who is it directed to s.oodeeo inkh  mdf 
ad hhtaasS`
 oamo!nit directed at all,' said the White   
tehbit s  
 onb  uaahwthere's nothing written on the   th het,woa  .  tlner   te unfolded the paper
as he spoke, and added `It isn't a letter, after all:  it's a set
of verses.'

  `Are they in the prisoner's handwriting s.o n
 aso nessao  of
the   
ad hhtaasS`
    fslmdGtre not,' said the White   
tehbit, `and that's the
  haIerest thing about it.'    h!wa    ,eo y all looked pu   w  
Ed.  he

  `  .Had
rceauosiao'ed somebody else's hand,' said the    tonet.
  h!wa    ,eo y all brightened up again.  he

  `  ht tdety dad   oye  ,i
e wai said the    taieaSlk e didn't write it, and
they can't prove I did:  there's no name signed at the end.'

  `If you didn't sign it,' said the    tonet, `that only makes the
matter worse.   
tou  s fdd
 txn nrmeant some mischief, or else you'd
have signed your name like an honest man.'

  There was a general clapping of hands at this:  it was the
first really clever thing the    tonet had said that day.

  `That   h`
Hh hs :sfdazn ilt,' said the   t adttetslf`It proves nothing of the sorta.i said Alice.  `Why, you don't
even know what they're abouta.i

  `  
uuO em,' said the    tonet.

  The White   
tehbit put on his spectacles.  `Where shall I begin,
please your  s tf,i
e chti he asked.

  `  t Yin at the beginning,' the    tonet said gravely, `and go on
till you come to the end:  then stop.'

  These were the verses the White   
tehbit read:--

        `They told me you had been to her,
          And mentioned me to him:
         sya 
ieau ta  e
i sohoce acter,
            t n t said I could not swim.

          .cTnomdlrword I had not gone
            h!drknow it to be true  he:
        If she should push the matter on,
          What would become of you sh,h       oa 
ieau dt   inwhthey gave him two,
           
tou gave us three or more s  `       twahh u, o eturned from him to you,
          Though they were mine before.

        If I or she should chance to be
          Involved in this affair,
          .yuad
Moryou to set them free,
            ty kree
 keygygt a tslf       s rces'on was that you had been
            hu t ; i a ola  cpmdax it  he
        An obstacle that came between
            .ot
hand ourselves, and it.

          tiantt let him know she liked them best,
             Ao  this must ever be
        A secret, kept from all the rest,
            t !ween yourself and me.'

  `That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet,'
said the    tonet, rubbing his hands s  
 od ai
yTomdf 
ad hm
-'

  `If any one of them can e y plain it,' said Alice,   hn, e had
grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit
afraid of interrupting him,  he `I'll give him si y pence.      Ea    o
hiantt
believe there's an atom of meaning in it.'

  The   
ad hh u, 
t  sn hi
te iemdtafslates, ` sf t  tyoit.naoohelieve
there's an atom of meaning in it,' but none of them attempted to
e y plain the paper.

  `If there's no meaning in it,' said the    tonet, `that saves a
world of trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any.  And
yet I don't know,' he went on, spreading out the verses on his
knee, and looking at them with one eye s  
 oa ottlrto see some
meaning in them, after all.   
g g A

 ue  tpa  hhHh he ,ftr  f mg`syea e s e
- 
xdayAan't swim, can you s.o dkIasahlnd a'ng to the    taieautslfThe    taieauol pk his head sadly.  `  ti oa hd s ohta  n oepl' he said.
  h!lda ofdy no tainly did   h   t
eshbeing made entirely of cardboard.  he

  `All right, so far,' said the    tonet, and he went on muttering
over the verses to himself:  ` 
,a Hf  t   f mgloa tGh th  t HH`
fdHt g `wys ''s
the   
ad h
l s   course--  
g e    ts r dh tf m : 
fmff Thyeft  tRo   .ho  dh tf . e s yegl me
- 
z l w
ghat must be what he did with the tarts, you know--'

  `  t n t, it goes on  
,ah m :
t A 
o 
o   
Hlefdfw  f : tr  
   w mdhh  . e s yeHh 
t  th h? wti said
Alice.

  `Why, there they area.i said the    tonet triumphantly, pointing to
the tarts on the table.  `  h othing can be clearer than T  T otwStwaar!ain-- 
`mh tf ` th 
Hfsf t  tf T o . T  . e sf  
oa ttlt `wfyou never had fits, my
dear, I think s.o dchna Oysa   m ueen.

  `  h evera.i said the   t adtteh ad oiad

 whthrowing an inkstand at the
 
oi   wn hrnhola ot pke.    h!wa adu  i .vtie little   t ee
h cpht`m s  f
writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no
mark s  ohut he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was
trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.  he

  `Then the words don't    ,dlel daldepdeeomdf  tonet, looking round
the court with a smile.  There was a dead silence.

  `It's a puna.i the    tonet added in an offended tone, and
everybody laughed, ` 
oet the   
ad hhhoinmeai  mdtafverdict,' the
   tonet said, for about the twentieth time that day.

  `  h o, noa.i said the   t adttetr
  o,i'ence first--verdict afterwards.'

  ` slnl  f and nonsensea.i said Alice loudly.  `The idea of having
the sentence firsta.i

  `  ms
ohhip  tonguea.i said the   t adtt?.p ning purple.

  `I won'ta.i said Alice.

  `  to  f with her heada.i the   t adtteol iD,ci the top of her voice.
  h obody moved.

  `Who cares for you s.oodeeo
 eme n
h  hn, e had grown to her full
si   grby this time.  he  ` 
tou're nothing but a pack of cardsa.i

  At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying
down upon her:  she gave a little scream, half of fright and half
of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on
the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently
brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the
trees upon her face.

  `Wake up, Alice deara.i said her sister s  
  tll whwhat a long
sleep you've hada.i

  `  t

hI've had such a curious dreama.i said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have   
ad
pheen reading about s   nuswlaapla  cph on'shed, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WA sfew nd oiadhhua et
hdear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea s  oents
getting late.'   sc 
 eme n 
imad rand ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

    t n t her sister sat still   
ad
rnhola ht`m dt 
hleaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

     ,trst, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her
voice, and see that   haIer little toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that W  th he ,ftruwdrth
nmonei  dt  ahTg g ,neog
'll as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little
sister's dream.

  The long grass rustled at her feet as the White   
tehbit hurried
by--the frightened  s tad:splashed his way through the
neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as
the  s te ch   mn a  nurdax riends shared their never-ending meal,
and the shrill voice of the   t adtte i hno ing off her unfortunate
guests to e y ecution--once more the pig-baby was snee   gtng on the
  tnl saot.axaniwhwhile plates and dishes crashed around it--once
more the shriek of the    te yphon, the s  haIaking of the  
oi   wn hnts
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mi y ed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
 s tha  rtteo tle.

   sc ola odi on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the   t adttnis shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--and the snee   grof the baby, the shriek of the    te yphon, and
all the other   haIer noises, would change   hn, e knew  he to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the  s tha  rtteo tle's
heavy sobs.

   
oastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman s   nurc
lthdy,tb,l ait slmd  i-s  u,  dt  o iper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other little children, and make T  m Tdf
dGoc d oetht and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple   
 s t
lg a ta tohering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             T  m :  tfh   t