Alice's Adventures in Wonderland

                A 
oI yh tti sjo .  hs : h T  he  w :sk e  h  W  th h   tr: 
yd
 r f .

                           
oewis  y.c  s
h,h               t`m : s ea  ,jr tfh   h I  heoy   
   dyd hhfw  ddhh  tftueTI  th h      retr  oh ,h,h`                           hhftA  hweHf
d e

                        ti
temdf 
tehbit-  msWh,h 
 eme n 
dec dw'nning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation s.o,h  oA ola 
dey ia!a no ing in her own mind   h'eyg,hkechdy ial
ahwfor the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid  he, whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
  
tehbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  There was nothing so   hs : 
yg remarkable in that s  aio  did Alice
think it so   hs : 
yg much out of the way to hear the   
tehbit say to
itself, `  t
 hn n  et    t
 hn n  et  I shall be latea.i    hn
hen she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed   hapen aiiural  he s  g d[Wunroff this minutea.i
 sya 
nano ally gave herself very good advice,   hnocalth she very
seldom followed it  he, and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes s   nuriuarshe remembered
trying to bo y  her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of cro  haIt she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `  t n t it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two peopleam  tll w
ghere's hardly enough of me left to make   th h   tc aot iAtable
persona.i

   sc ie dt  ah:fell on a little glass bo y  that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `  tw sekhh tti were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key s   nupe   it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door s  od aoesao  way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happensa.i

   sya  'e a little bit, and said an y iously to herself, `Which
way sh  tlda oR uhol', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was   hapen otp prised to
find that she remained the same si   gsAhdy,tb,yv'sn oes_Ai rateam    towever, the
 s n ltiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try    tustraphy.
 
oondon is the capital of   hge is, and   hge is is the capital of   
t ta

dnp   w      met in the
               house,
             
`,tg us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                     
t  th hetro
- ymme,
                       I'll take no
                        denial s   td-                     must have a
                 trial:     Ao 
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do. 
,h           oAeeomdlf           mouse to the
               cur,  
A
al s `                e. oi-l`                 hn n   o,tr,
                         With
                     no   
ad hh`                 i     ,ehete,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath. 
,h                wt e'll be
                   
ala.whI'll
                   be   
ad h
l wlf                        sceeo`                  haean'ng
                      old    ,eo y:
                      
g e'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death. 
gi


  ` 
tou are not attendinga.i said the  s tad:to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of s.o,h 
 oa oheg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think s.o,h 
 oa  cp   f mggg' cried the  s tadThdhce ply and very angrily.

  `A knota.i said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking an y iously about her.  `  t

hdo let me help to undo ita.i

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the  s tadThltetting up
and walking away.  ` 
tou insult me by talking such nonsensea.i

  `I didn't mean ita.i pleaded poor Alice.  `  t n t you're so easily
offended, you knowa.i

  The  s tad:only growled in reply.

  `  ht tdety i ta ohack and finish your storya.i Alice called after
it s   nu m  s Hwai
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know
 sfmdhh tleftI  h    tdanai aoging is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything s  od oaatll   
ad
ptty, at this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm   hapen .ac,ch  oheing such a tiny little thinga.i

  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had e y pected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.   sya  cegily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's   hapen aaialth--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk   hapen od ,oucha.i

  Alasamoe-deyi rlate to wish thatam  oCrwent on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.   sl'll she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `  h ow I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WI 
o 
o become of me s.o,h   ,tba  'ly for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of lifeam oa hi 
daeai  
l '  yoc  h  have happened to meam,a ,ieoa adT H n t, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
      Why, I do it again and again.'

    ` 
tou are old,' said the youth, `as I mentioned before,
      And have grown most uncommonly fat s  `    wnmhhir.p ned a back-somersault in at the door--
        htkrwhwhat is the reason of that s.o,h   
 oaarthhhhi htkrqwyatd you manage to do it s.o,h   
 oaarthhhhiYaa,snt   sc ola ohegan nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did
not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself
down to nine inches high.



                            yh T o  lg`tf
f da e

                           httg and   hti i it  ,h`   
 i   e tonnln  i  Thrshe stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do ne y t, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--  hn, e considered him to be a footman
because he was in livery:  otherwise,   
ala.anmohy his face only,
she would have called him a fish  he--and rapped loudly at the door
with his knuckles.  It was opened by another footman in livery,
with a round face, and large eyes like a frog s   nuphoth footmen,
Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their
heads.   sya h ahg very curious to know what it was all about, and
crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

  The    ,tsh-   A ssvubegan by producing from under his arm a great
letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to
the other, saying, in a solemn tone, `   Ao  the   tnl saothtr
 nstand'tation from the   t adttemrplay cro  haIt.'  The    ,k
u` 
 ptman
repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the
words a little, `   ,k t mdf t adttetr
 npnunttation for the   tnl saothwi oolay cro  haIt.'

  Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled
together.

  Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into
the wood for fear of their hearing her s   nu-laapla an hhmooeeped
out the    ,tsh-   A ssvuwas gone, and the other was sitting on the
ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

  Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

  `There's no sort of use in knocking,' said the    A ssvnhlfnusghat for two reasons.     ,trst, because I'm on the same side of the
door as you are s  otAondly, because they're making such a noise
inside, no one could possibly hear you.'  And certainly there was
a most e y traordinary noise going on within--a constant howling
and snee   gtng, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish
or kettle had been broken to pieces.

  `  ht tdetwhthen,' said Alice, `how am I to get in s.o,h 
  twao e might be some sense in your knocking,' the    A ssvuwent
on without attending to her, `if we had the door between us.     Ao 
instance, if you were I  h  sd e  trThl daftoetht knock, and I could let
you out, you know.'    .y,    twa ooepper when he pleasesa.i

                     yh m mfw  dd
 tslf              `Wowam
d
dg wowa.i

  `  .t a et you may nurse it a bit, if you likea.i the   tnl saothodeeowi 
 eme n
hflinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and
get ready to play cro  haIt with the   t adtt` sdpopose it should be raving mad after allam oa  ulpst wish I'd
gone to see the   m'ter insteada.i



                            yh T o  lg`tf
f da eI

                         A  s tp ttvlfhge ty


  There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,
and the  s te ch   mn a  nuUlru, , e  slcI  t-dewh`Why is a raven like a writing-desk s.o,h 
  hht ta
hwe shall have some fun nowa.i thought Alice.  `I'm glad
they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she
added aloud.

  `  ti hhir ta nemci you think you can find out the answer to it s.oghna 
l ''s the answer s.o,h 
 oa  cea'nit the slightest idea,' said the   m'ter.

  `  h or I,' said the  s te ch   mn a tslfAlice sighed wearily.  `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the   m'ter, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's   . e s gnt

  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

  `  to   course you don'ta.i the   m'ter said, tossing his head
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke to Timea.i

  `  hti  ceos not,' Alice cautiously replied:  `but I know I have to
beat time when I learn music.'

  `Ahammci accounts for it,' said the   m'ter.  `  .y,tnit stand
beating.    h ow, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
almost anything you liked with the clock.     Ao  instance, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning,   
ad

 ernuho ate I'll never go T  m : 
Hksienig' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my lifea.i

      vpg as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curiousa.i she thought.
`  t n t everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at once.'
And in she went.

    tauarmore she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `  h ow, I'll manage better this time,'
she said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key,
and unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went
to work nibbling at the mushroom   hn, e had kept a piece of it
in her pocket  he till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down
the little passage:  and T  m : h --she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool fountains.



                           yh T o  lg`tf
f da eII

                   The   t adttnis  ya  r haIt-   te ound


  A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at
it, busily painting them red.  Alice thought this a very curious
thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and   
ad
rnhola hoeta ad -to them she heard one of them say, ` 
oook out now,    ,tveam   .on't go
splashing paint over me like thata.i

  `I couldn't help it,' said    ,tve, in a sulky tone s  
  o,i nie   A
eted
my elbow.'

    tae
loe s  o,i niehd s asoad rand said, `That's right,    ,tveam 
 e
,e thwhuhmdc lheta  ie ssao sa.i

  ` 
t  th hni  tphetter not talka.i said    ,tve.  `I heard the   t adtteodrkae
 l                     yh T o  lg`tf
d e    r ,h                     twa  oys e o tteo tle's  slio y


  ` 
tou can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thinga.i said the   tnl saot
l nhola .ba  nhrdt   n  t  u h ahaatonately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

  Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I' s cf.uchess,' she said to herself,   hn'monreoa' hh, opeful tone though  he, `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
A 
o 
o.   scad rdoes very well without-- s trt dcaaeq iranahnntt be
so proud as all that.'

  `With e y tras s.o n
 asomdfs tha  rtteo tle a little an y iously.

  ` 
tes,' said Alice, `we learned    ,ctuofnurtadme sneslf`And washing s.oodeeomdfs tha  rtteo tle.

  ` yat mnan xnota.i said Alice indignantly.

  `Ahammdtehhip s wasn't a really good school,' said the  s tha  slen rtle in a tone of great relief.  `  h ow at   th he  wo`they had at the
end of the bill,  
` 
o ench, music, A  h   trtdhoo` . e  h    te
-e y tra. 
gi

  ` 
tou couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice s  
 htad'ng at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the  s tha  rtteo tle with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'

  `What was that s.oonr ceouah- eme n tslf`  
',onet and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the  s tha  slen rtle replied s  
  nuWlsaou h  uaihon          n
 onuai g ,hoAeeo dys nu nhiauthe
         dance sh`   tdtll you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you   
 iauthe
         dance sh wti



  `Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' said
Alice, feeling very glad that it was over at last:  `and I do so
like that curious song about the whitinga.i

  `  t

has to the whiting,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle, `they--you've
seen them, of course s.o,h 
   wnowai said Alice, `I've often seen them at dinn--' she
checked herself hastily.

  `I don't know where   t'nn may be,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle, `but
if you've seen them so often, of course you know what they're
like.'

  `I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully.  `They have their
tails in their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.'

  ` 
tou're wrong about the crumbs,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle:
`crumbs would all wash off in the sea.    t n t they   T o  dh tysaou mna thgautheir mouths s   nu_d.h nupl ithaduno  the sea,' the    te yphon went on in a deep
voice, `are done with a whiting.    h ow you know.'

  `And what are they made of s.o
 eme n  n
 asoonreminkh  
ua '
curiosity.

  ` schtth nuIels, of course,' the    te yphon replied rather
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'

  `If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, `I'd have said to the porpoise,  
` meep
back, please:  we don't want  
t  th he
taokpdg 
gi

  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the  s tha  rtteo tle
said:  `no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it really s.oodeeo
 eme n onreminkh  
ua ' surprise.

  `  to   course not,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle:  `why, if a fish came
to  s Hwhand told me he was going a   
 ip ney, I should say  
,a ees w, at porpoise sh wti

  `  tiantt you mean  
g ip pose 
Ahti said Alice.

  `I mean what I say,' the  s tha  rtteo tle replied in an offended
tone.  And the    te yphon added ` ymme, let's hear some of  
t  th he  w,eadnaend aolneslf`I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `  ty c shnauall that,' said the  s tha  rtteo tle.

  `  h o, noam  twa  uuni'ures first,' said the    te yphon in an
impatient tone:  `e y planations take such a dreadful time.'

   sc 
 eme n ohegan telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White   
tehbit.   sya 
deklmeee:nervous about
it   
ad
r' first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so   hs : 
yg wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.    .t  htawnano s were perfectly
  hapnm.a , ola 
immrthe part about her repeating ` 
t  th he
 r w :  th
o  tel` 

 seft  tf
yea e 
o 
oIA s sai to the  y.ai ooillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the  s tha  rtteo tle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the    te yphon.

  `It all came differenta.i the  s tha  rtteo tle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'    .yhpked at the    te yphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  ` slinpad rand repeat  
giTI sft`m :  hs mea hhHf th  `T  m : sf,fhe  : .ho  w ., 
gi said
the    te yphon.

  `  msP orus againa.i cried the    te yphon, and the  s tha  rtteo tle had
  
ad
phegun to repeat it, when a cry of `The trial's beginninga.i
was heard in the distance.

  ` ymme ona.i cried the    te yphon, and, taking Alice by the hand,
it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.

  `What trial is it s.o
 eme n ooanted as she ran s  ohut the    te yphon
only answered ` ymme ona.i and ran the faster, while more and more
faintly came, carried on the bree   grthat followed them, the
melancholy words:--

    ` sc i g ,doo of the e--e--evening,
          t unUl  
 eme nats   tt ntdence


  `  .t a et' cried Alice,   hapen h  i 
nTenet in the flurry of the
moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she
  
ayi i,dpo in such a hurry that she tipped over the   
ad hm
bo y  with
the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the   
ad hhtaariemrthe heads
of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding
her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset
the week before.

  `  t

hI   t Hf tl dad  ooardona.i she e y claimed in a tone of great
dismay, and began picking them up again as   hape e a xas she could,
for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and
she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once
and put back into the   
ad hm
bo y , or they would die.

  `The trial cannot proceed,' said the    tonet in a very grave
voice, `until all the   
ad hhtaarn a ohack in their proper places--
A 
o 
o,' he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as
he said do.

  Alice looked at the   
ad hm
bo y , and saw that, in her haste, she
had put the  
oi   wn hpnrddphi
tnri d
ire:that came between
            .ot
hand ourselves, and it.

          tiantt let him know she liked them best,
             Ao  this must ever be
        A secret, kept from all the rest,
            t !ween yourself and me.'

  `That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet,'
said the    tonet, rubbing his hands s  
 od ai
yTomdf 
ad hm
-'

  `If any one of them can e y plain it,' said Alice,   hn, e had
grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit
afraid of interrupting him,  he `I'll give him si y pence.      